Comprehensive History of The French and indian war in 1500 words or less
Tensions had been rising between France and england as they both attempted to agressively expand the amount of territory they controlled in the New world. The English controlled most of the coast up to the appilachian mountains, and the french controlled the territory from Louisianna, through the Mississippi valley and on to great lakes of canada. There were a 3 major factors that contributed to the rising tensions between France and Britain. These factors are consistent with human nature, and boil down to Land, Money, and Religeon. The French controlled land, or, more acurratly, water, was rich with marine life, allowing them to make a healthy profit from fish exports. The territory of New France also had a fairly large, if not dense, Native population, giving the colonies access to even more exportable goods (most notably leather and furs). That's money, and land, so what about religeon? Well, the French were catholic, which the English hadn't been for near two hundred years. Being the petty Europeans they are, the English had begun to grow weary of the catholic influence so close to the young colonies. 
Now, the fight that started the war, was all about the upper ohio river valley. The french had laid claim to the territory around 1749, and had built forts in an attempt to add legitimency to that claim. This same territory was also considered part of Virginia, so in 1753 an small group of men set of to Fort Le Boeuf. The Commander showed great hospitality, but denied any validity of English claims. So, in 1754, the British responded to this by Building their own Fort at the forks of the ohio river. During this time, both the Colonial groups attempted to gain the aid of native american tribes. The british had already struck an alliance with The Iroquois Confederacy, and claimed they had appointed a 'Half-King' that had authority over all the tribes in the region. The majority of the native americans in the area did not recognise their authroity, and being worried about British expanision, ultimatley sided with the French.
On May 24th, 1754, British Colonial forces, led by George Washington and Tanaghrisson, raided an encampment of French Soldiers. Afterwards, the wounded Leader attempted to explain that they were on a peaceful mission to negotiate with British forces, but in the middle of that conversation Tanaghrisson, due to simply hating the french, killed him. Expecting French retataliation, Washington quickly constructed a fort, and got ready to defend it. On July 3rd, a combination of French and Indian combatants, forced him to surrender. This news reached virginia, where it was immediatly passed to London. British Prime Minister Thomas Pelham-Holles quickly constructed a plan to attack French forts. Possibly in an attempt to make money off a war, some members of the british cabinent made his plans public, revealing them to the French. This escalated a small skirmish over some land into a full on war.
The British immediatly dispatched General Edward Braddock to act as commander and chief of the Colonial forces. Braddock in 1720, at 15 years of age, joined the British army, and worked his way through the ranks, until finally, in, 1754, he was appointed Major-General. By all accounts, he was mean, pretentious, and arrogant. He was disliked by the colonial leaders, as well as their native allies. Leading them to often completely neglect his orders. On July 13th, 1755, in response to a warning about the fighting styles of the french's native allies, is quoted as saying 'These savages may, indeed, be a formidable enemy to your raw American militia, but upon the King's regular and disciplined troops, sir, it is impossible they should make any impression'. He then proceeded to lead on ambush on Fort Duquesne, where he was killed. His death prompted a two year long stalemate in the new world. 
Serveral battles were foght elsewere, but in 1757, after a French defeat in India, the British succesfully invaded and conquered Canada. The French, no longer having things going in their favour, reached out to Britain in hopes of neogtiating a peace treaty. The British, also hyper-aware they had the upperhand, agreed to peace, but only if France gave up canada, as well give up a large amount of Money and goods. France, turned them down. This prompted the King of Spain, Charles III, to enter into an allience with his cousin, Louis XV, King of France. The Family Compact, as this allience was know, stated that if England didn't stop the war ptior to May 1st, 1762, then Spain would be forced to declare war on Britain. Although the oridginal intention was to pressure the british into a peace agreement, it instead gave the French a Morale boost, and they doubled down on defeating the british. This ultimatley lead the British to declare war on spain in early 1762. 
The Spanish proved to be ultimatly useless. By August of 1762, Britain had captured Western Cuba, Manilla, and Havanna. And the european front, the Spanish attemped an invasion of Britain's ally portugual, and ultimatly failed. In 1763 the Treaty of Paris was signed. Giving Britain all French Territory East of The Mississippi, and Spanish Florida.
Before the French and Indian war, British administration was hands-off. In the sense that, although there were technically laws in place regarding trade and taxes, the colonist simply didn't care. Afterwards it was decided that the forts on the northern and southern borders of the collonies would be permenatly manned to protect against possible spanish retaliation, and forts would be constructed and manned on the western frontier, in order to protect against american natives. Because the British felt it best to guard against another possible Native American Uprising, they also issued the proclomation line, which drew a line on the appalachain mountains, which the colonist were to stay to the east of. Although this sudden action from the British raised many eyebrows from the colonist, it wasn't the straw that broke the camel's back. That straw, was the sugar act. Prior to the sugar act of 1764, there was a $.06/gal tax on forign molasses, that the colonist simply bribed their way out of. After all, the Custom's officials were typically "Underpaid, Unenthusiastic, and a long way from home". The sugar act cut that tax in half, but also replaced the careless, and corrupte Customs officials, with much better paid, much more deligent ones. This drove colonial tensions through the roof, and ultimatly lead to a serious of protest, which lead to a full on war for independence
