The following is the text of a series of messages by Ted Lapoint, sysop
of Kingdom Come! BBS concerning archaeology and the Book of Mormon:
=======================================================================


Biblical archaeology is a major field of inquiry that has  filled museums
with artifacts had has filled libraries with books on cities, temples,
fortresses, coins, inscriptions, and so on, that have been dug from
mounds and ruins in Israel as well as in Lebanon, Syria, Egypt, Iran
(Persia), Iraq (Babylon), and other lands mentioned in the Bible.
Archaeologists have often used the Bible as a guide to what to look for
and where, and the objects and writings uncovered have confirmed the
Bible as factual, proving that the people and places spoken of in the
Bible actually existed.

Ancient Egyptian and Babylonian records unearthed by archaeologists may
portray their own pharaohs and kings as superior to the kings of Judah
and Israel, but they thus verify the existence of those Jewish and
gentile leaders named in the Bible.  They may commemorate Egyptian and
Babylonian victories over ancient Israel, while they ignore their own
defeats, but they thus confirm that the battles really took place as
recorded in the Bible.  Can the same be said for the Book of Mormon?
	Have archaeologists digging in North, South and Central America
used the BOM as a guide, as they have used the Bible in the Near and
Middle East?  Has the BOM guided them in locating and uncovering ruins
of cities, temples, and fortifications mentioned in that book the way
the Bible has?  Have coins and inscriptions been unearthed in the
Americas bearing the names of nations and ruler spoken of in the BOM as
excavations in Bible lands have uncovered references to Old Testament
kings, New Testament Caesars, and even Pontius Pilate?  And have any
writings been found in the Americas referring to the BOM's alleged
appearances of Christ in this hemisphere, comparable to the nearly
contemporary Roman and Jewish Talmud accounts, which refer to Jesus as a
criminal and an impostor but at least acknowledge that he did walk the
earth in the first century A.D. Judea?  What archaeological evidence is
there for the BOM?
	While apologists for the Mormon Church have written on the
subject, and organizations have been formed by the LDS members - with
the purpose of producing support for the BOM- with the result that
Mormons are able to trot out alleged "proof" of its authenticity - there
is an obvious difference between such chauvinistic efforts and the
legitimate work of professional archaeologists.  Thus, if the LDS Church
members choose to ignore the findings of the anthropology and
archaeology departments of schools across the country in favor of
conclusions reached at Brigham Young University, this should not be
surprising.  But anyone who approaches the subject with both eyes open
quickly notices that Mormons keep citing Mormon sources for their
support, because support is lacking from academically recognized
non-Mormon experts in the field.
	Undoubtedly, one of the most comprehensive sources for
historical and archaeological information on the Americas is the
Smithsonian Institution to inquire concerning the authenticity of the
historical events portrayed in the Book of Mormon.
	In a letter to the Smithsonian - dated January 1, 1990, the
following letter was sent:

Dear Sir or Madam:

	I have been reading the Book of Mormon, a scripture of "The
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints"  (the Mormons).  I have
questions concerning the authenticity of the historical events that it
portrays.  They are:

	1)  Is the Book of Mormon used to find archaeological sites in
	    the New World?

	2)  Is there archaeological evidence that prior to the European
	    influence, the North, Central and South American Indians did:

		a.  use iron and or steel?

		b.  use vehicle with wheels like full size wagons,
		carts, chariots or similar?

		c.  use or have access to asses, goats, horses, sheep,
		elephants, cattle, oxen, cows?

		d.  use of have access to domesticated plants like
		wheat, barley, oats, millet, and rice?

		e.  use silk and or linen?

	3)  Did some or all of the original ancestors of the American
	    Indians come from Israel or some Semetic family?

	4) Have any New world archaeological sites ever been connected
	   to a Book of Mormon event or location?  If so, please name them.

	Thank you for your response to the above and any related
information you may wish to send.  I have enclosed a check for $2.00 to
cover postage, handling, etc.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Now, I would like to list all of the areas in the BOM that instigated
the above questions:

Iron (2 Nephi 5:15;20:34; Jarom 1:8; Mosiah 11:8; Ether 10:23)
Steel (1 Nephi 4:9; 16:18; 2 Nephi 5:15; Ether 7:9)
Vehicles with wheels (Alma 18:9-10, 12; 3 Nephi 3:22; 21:14)
Asses (1 Nephi 18:25; Mosiah 5:14; 12:5; Ether 9:19)
Goats (1 Nephi 18:25; Alma 14:29; Ether 9:18)
Horses (1 Nephi 18:25; 2 Nephi 12:7; Enos 1:21; Alma 18:9-12; 3 Nephi
	3:22l 21:14; 1:21; 3 Nephi 3:22; 6:1; Ether 9:19)
Sheep (Ether 9:18)
Elephants (Ether 9:19)
Cattle (Enos 1:21; 3 Nephi 3:22; 6:1; Ether 9:18)
Oxen (1 Nephi 18:25; Ether 9:18)
Cows (1 Nephi 18:25; Ether 9:18)
Wheat (Mosiah 9:9)
Grain (Helaman 11:17)
Silk (1 Nephi 13:7; Alma 1:29; Ether 9:17)
Linen (1 Nephi 13:7-8; Mosiah 10:5; Alma 1:29; 4:6; Ether 10:24)

And this, was their response:

	Your recent inquiry concerning the Smithsonian Institution's
alleged use of the Book of Mormon as a scientific guide has been
received in the Smithsonian's department of Anthropology.
	The Book of Mormon is a religious document and not a scientific
guide.  The Smithsonian Institution has never used it in archaeological
research and any information that you have received to the contrary is
incorrect.  Accurate information about the Smithsonian's position is
contained in the enclosed "Statement Regarding the Book of Mormon,"
which was prepared to respond to the numerous inquiries that the
Smithsonian receives on this topic.
	Because the Smithsonian regards the unauthorized use of its name
to disseminate inaccurate information as unlawful, we would appreciate
your assistance in providing us with the names of any individuals who
are misusing the Smithsonian's name.  Please address any correspondence
to:
	Public Information Center
	Department of Anthropology
	Natural Museum of Natural History
	Smithsonian Institution
	Washington, DC 20560

PREPARED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY - SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The "Statement Regarding the Book of Mormon" is as follows:

1.  The Smithsonian Institution has never used the Book of Mormon in any
was as a scientific guide.  Smithsonian archaeologists see no direct
connection between the archaeology of the New World and the subject
matter of the book.

2.  The physical type of the American Indian is basically Mongoloid,
being most closely related to that of the peoples of eastern, central,
and northeastern Asia.  Archaeological evidence indicates that the
ancestors of the present Indians came into the New World - probably over
a land bridge known to have existed in the Bering Strait during the last
Ice Age - in a continuing series of small migrations beginning from
about 25,000 to 30,000 years ago.

3.  Present evidence that the first people to reach this continent from
the East were the Norsemen who briefly visited the northeastern part of
North America around A.D. 1000 and then settled in Greenland.  There is
nothing to show that they reached Mexico or Central America.

4.  One of the main lines of evidence supporting the scientific finding
that contacts with Old World civilizations, if indeed they occurred at
all, were of very little significance for the development of American
Indian civilizations, is the fact that none of the principal Old World
domesticated food plants or animals (except the dog) occurred in the New
World in pre-Columbian times.  American Indians had no wheat, barley,
oats, millet, rice, cattle, pigs, chickens, horses, donkeys, camels
before 1492.  (Camels and horses were in the Americas, along with bison,
mammoth and mastodon, but all of these animals became extinct around
10,000 B.C. at the time when the early big-game hunters spread across
the Americas.)

5.  Iron, steel, glass, and sild were not used in the New World before
1492 (except for occasional use of unsmelted meteoric iron).  Native
copper was worked in various locations in pre-Columbian times, but true
metallurgy was limited to southern Mexico and the Andean region, where
its occurrence in late prehistoric times involved gold, silver, copper,
and their alloys, but not iron.*

6.  There is a possibility that the spread of cultural traits across the
Pacific to Mesoamerica and the northwestern coast of South america began
several hundred years before the Christian era.  However, any such
inter-hemisphere contacts appear to have been the results of accidental
voyages origination in eastern and southern Asia.  It is by no means
certain that even such contacts occurred; certainly there were no
contacts with the ancient Egyptians, Hebrews, or other people of Western
Asian and the Near East.

7.  No reputable Egyptologist or other specialist on Old World
archaeology, and no expert on New World prehistory, has discovered of
confirmed any relationship between archaeological remains in Mexico and
archaeological remains in Egypt.

8.  Reports of findings of ancient Egyptian, Hebrew, and other Old World
writings in the New WOrld in pre-Columbian contexts have frequently
appeared in newspapers, magazines, and sensational books.  None of these
claims has stood up to examination by reputable scholars.  No
inscriptions using Old World forms of writing have been shown to have
occurred in any part of the Americas before 1492 except for a few Norse
stones which have been found in Greenland.


* Authors note:  Iron proceeds steel.
**********************************************************************

So, while archaeologists working in the Near East and the Middle East
have found an abundance of artifacts confirming the history found in the
Bible, what archaeologists have found in the Americas fails to support
the Book of Mormon and, in fact, contradicts it.
	
Both Mormon founder Joseph Smith Jr., and LDS Church President (late?)
Ezra Taft Benson have called the Book of Mormon "the keystone of our
religion." (The ENSIGN - January 1992, pp-2-5)  The archaeological
evidence against the Book of Mormon,then, serves as evidence also
against the entire Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.



The truth of Mormonism stands or falls on two things.  The first is the
authority of the Book of Mormon.  Ted Lapoint has raised a question or
two concerning the verity of the BOM, questions that must be answered. 
Unless the BOM can show the same truth in REALITY as the Bible can show,
serious doubts about it's authority in the life of >anyone< remain. 

The second basis for the truth claims of Mormonism is the authority of
Joseph Smith as a prophet of God.  Some incredible claims are made by
the Mormon church for their founder, Joseph Smith... "Joseph Smith, the
Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the
salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in
it." (Doctrine and Covenants 135:3).  Bruce McConkie in MORMON DOCTRINE
says "So great was his assigned mission, with reference to the
'restitution of all things' (Acts 3:21), that holy prophets spoke of
him, by name, thousands of years before his mortal birth. (2 Ne. 3.) And
as to the mighty work to be started by him-there are as many prophecies
foretelling it as there are about any other single subject, not even
excepting the host of prophetic utterances about our Lord and his
redemptive sacrifice." A careful reading of Acts 3, by the way, will
show that it is not Joseph Smith but Jesus Christ that is the subject of
that passage, and it is not the so-called 'restored' gospel that is in
view but rather the millenial reign of Jesus Christ.  But the
interpretation of Acts 3 is not my main concern here, but rather to see
if Joseph Smith was indeed the great prophet he claimed himself to be,
and that the Mormon church of today esteems him as.
 
The Bible gives the tests for a true prophet of God in two places, 
Deuteronomy 13:1-5 and Deuteronomy 18:20-22.  When the prophet speaks in
the name of the Lord, it WILL come to pass.  If the thing prophecied
does not, then that prophet is a FALSE prophet, he is NOT from God. 
I'll leave it to you to determine what the Bible says should be done
about that, but following a false prophet is not an option!
 
Let's look at Joseph Smith as a prophet.  Consider the following, taken
from Doctrine and Covenants 84

	 D&C 84:0 Revelation given through Joseph Smith the Prophet,
at Kirtland, Ohio, September 22 and 23, 1832. During the month of
September, Elders had begun to return from their missions in the
eastern States, and to make reports of their labors. It was while
they were together in this season of joy that the following
communication was received. The Prophet designates it a Revelation on
Priesthood. See History of the Church, vol. 1, p. 286. --A Temple to
be built in the land of Zion during this generation-The line of the
Holy Priesthood from Moses back to Adam--Relation between the Holy
Priesthood and the Lesser Priesthood--Bearers of these two Priesthoods
called the sons of Moses and of Aaron respectively--Blessings and
privileges of those who attain to these Priesthoods--The bondage of
sin--The new and everlasting covenant--Gifts of the spirit
specified--The Lord calls his servants, friends--Missionary service
imperative--Plagues impending because of wickedness.

	 D&C 84:1 A revelation of Jesus Christ unto his servant Joseph
Smith, Jun., and six elders, as they united their hearts and lifted
their voices on high.

	 D&C 84:2 Yea, the word of the Lord concerning his church,
established in the last days for the restoration of his people, as he
has spoken by the mouth of his prophets, and for the gathering of his
saints to stand upon Mount Zion, which shall be the city of New
Jerusalem.

	 D&C 84:3 Which city shall be built, beginning at the temple
lot, which is appointed by the finger of the Lord, in the western
boundaries of the State of Missouri, and dedicated by the hand of
Joseph Smith, Jun., and others with whom the Lord was well ple ased.

	 D&C 84:4 Verily this is the word of the Lord, that the city
New Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the saints, beginning
at this place, even the place of the temple, which temple shall be
reared in this generation.

	 D&C 84:5 For verily this generation shall not all pass away
until an house shall be built unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest
upon it, which cloud shall be even the glory of the Lord, which shall
fill the house.

The prophecy here, made in 1832 in the name of the Lord (D&C 84:2), is
that a temple would be built in Independence, Missouri before that
generation passed away, and it would be dedicated by the hand of Joseph
Smith.  Simply stated, and simply verified.  There was NO temple
constructed and dedicated by Joseph Smith in Independence.  The hand of
the Lord was NOT on Joseph Smith when he made this prophecy in His name,
because this prophecy DID NOT COME TO PASS!  
 
As shown in another posting, the Book of Mormon has no authority because
the record it contains is a fiction.  And as shown in this posting,
Joseph Smith has no authority as a prophet, because his prophecies did
not come to pass.  Mormonism therefore fails on the very points it
claims for its foundation.  It is a false religion.
 
The gift of eternal life was purchased for us by the real death on the
cross nearly 2000 years ago, in the real city of Jerusalem, by the real
person of Jesus Christ.  This was foretold in holy scripture and did
actually come to pass.  He arose from the dead on the third day as He
promised, the proof of what He proclaimed, and the proof to us that He
is Who He says He is, the Living God who alone can forgive our sins and
make us new creations.  This is His gift of grace to us, received by
faith in Him and His sacrifice for us, and marked by our turning from
sin in repentance and obedience to His will.  This is a personal
relationship with the God of all creation, not blind obedience to some
church or man or religion.  I do not invite you to pray ABOUT the truth
of this or any other word written by men... I invite you to pray TO the
True God, acknowledging your sins and ask Him for forgiveness and the
gift of Life in the Name of His Son Jesus Christ.  You will not be
saved by any other than Jesus, and it is my prayer that you will meet
Him today!

God bless you!
  Bill
 

 
 

           TEN REASONS WHY I CANNOT BE A MORMON
                   by Rev. John Hornok

 1.  MORMONISM DOES NOT TEACH THAT THE BIBLE IS THE INFALLIBLE WORK
OF GOD.

   "We believe the Bible to the the Word of God as far as it is
translated correctly; we also believe the book of Mormon to be the
word of God"  (Articles of Faith, No. 8).

   As Christians we believe the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New
Testaments to the the verbally inspired Word of God, the final
authority for faith and life, inerrant in the original writings,
infallible and God-breathed (2 Tim. 3:16-17; 2 Pet. 1:20-21; Matt
5:18).

 2.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT GOD IS AN EXALTED MAN AND HAS A PHYSICAL
BODY.

   "God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man"
(Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pg. 345).  "The Father has a
body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's..." (Doc. & Cov., Sec.
131:22)

   The Bible says, "God is not a man..." (Num. 23:19).  "God is a
Spirit; and they that worship Him must worship Him in spirit and in
truth" (John 4:24).  "A spirit hath not flesh and bones..." (Lk.
24:39).

 3.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT CHRIST AND THE DEVIL ARE BROTHERS.

   "...that Lucifer, the son of morning, is our elder brother and the
brother of Jesus Christ"  (Mormon Doctrine by Bruce McConkie, pp.
163-4).

   The Bible says that the devil is a created being, created by God.
"thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created,
till iniquity was found in thee"  (Ezekiel 28:15).  "For by Him
(Christ) were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in
earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, of dominions,
or principalities, or powers; all things were created by Him and for
Him..."  (Col. 1:15-17).

 4.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT JESUS WAS MARRIED AND THE HE IS POLYGAMOUS.

   "We say it was Jesus Christ who was married at Cana of Galilee"
(Journal of Discourses, Vol 2, p. 80).  Mormonism teaches that Jesus
was the natural child of Adam and Mary.  "When the Virgin Mary
conceived the Child Jesus....He was not begotten by the Holy Ghost.
And who is his Father?  He is the first of the human family" (Brigham
Young, Journal of Discourses, pp. 50-51).

   The Bible says, " In the beginning was the Word (Christ), and the
Word was with God, andthe Word was God;...The Word was made flesh and
dwelt among us..."  (John 1:1, 14).  "Then Mary said unto the angel,
How shall this be, seeing that I know not a man?  And the angel
answered... The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee..."(Lk. 1:34-35).

 5.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT THE TRUE CHURCH CEASED TO EXIST UNTIL IT
WAS RESTORED TO JOSEPH SMITH.

   The church (LDS) was restored April 6, 1830 by Joseph Smith (Doc. &
Cov., 20:1).

   Jesus Christ said, "I will build my church and the gates of hell
shall not prevail against it" (Matt. 16:18).  "for other foundation
can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ" (1 Cor.
3:11).  "...And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and
prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone" (Eph.
2:20).

 6.  MORMONISM TEACHES ANOTHER (PERVERTED) GOSPEL THAN THAT OF THE
BIBLE.

   The gospel to Mormonism is:  "Faith, Repentance, Baptism, Receiving
the Holy Spirit by laying on of hands, Morality, Loyalty, Tithing,
Word of Wisdom, Duty Celestial Marriage (for eternity)" (LDS chart of
FREE AGENCY and Articles of Faith, No. 4).

   The Bible says, "Moreover brethren, I declare unto you the gospel
that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to
the scriptures"  (1 Cor. 15:1, 3-4).  "if any man preach any other
gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed" (Gal.
1:9).

 7.  MORMONISM TEACHES SALVATION FOR THE THE DEAD BY PROXY WATER BAPTISM

   This doctrine is based on one misunderstood Scripture:  "Else what
shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at
all?  Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (1 Cor. 15:29).

   Paul did not practice baptism for the dead.  He excluded himself by
using the pronoun "they" rather than "we" or "ye".  He is asking a
question rather than making a statement.  "It is appointed unto man
once to die, but after this the judgment" (Heb. 9:27).

 8.  MORMONISM TEACHES GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH FOR THE DEAD

   "Let us, therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day
Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us
present in his holy temple, when it is finished, a book containing the
records of our dead, which shall be worth of all acceptation" (Doc. &
Cov., Sec. 128:24).

   The Bible says, "Neither give heed to fables and endless
genealogies" (1 Tim. 1:4).  "but avoid foolish question and
genealogies..." (Titus 3:9).

 9.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT THERE ARE MODERN DAY PROPHETS AND MODERN
DAY REVELATIONS FROM GOD.

   Mormonism claims that Joseph Smith received the Aaronic Priesthood
from John the Baptist.  The Melchizedek Priesthood and Apostleship was
restored by Peter, James and John shortly afterwards in 1829 (Doc. &
Cov., Sec. 13).

   The Bible says, "God...hath in these last days spoken unto us by
his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he
made the worlds" (Heb. 1:1-2).  The test of a prophet is given in
Deut. 18:20-22.

 10. MORMONISM TEACHES THAT SALVATION DEPENDS UPON GOOD WORKS AND
ACCEPTANCE OF JOSEPH SMITH.

   "No man who rejects the testimony of Joseph Smith can enter the
kingdom of God" (Doctrines of Salvation, vol. 1 pg. 190).  "Men have
work to do it they would obtain salvation" (Doctrines of Salvation.
vol. 3, pg 91).

   The Bible teaches that salvation is provided by Jesus Christ alone,
"for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we
must be saved" (Acts 4:10-12).  "For by grace are ye saved through
faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God.  Not of
works, lest any man should boast" (Eph. 2:8-9).

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon


            Divine Truths in the Book of Mormon

   Anyone visited by a Mormon Missionary has heard the Elder's
testimony concerning the Book of Mormon:  That he knows this book is
the Word of God and that the founder of the Mormon Church, Joseph
Smith, Jr., translated it by the gift and power of God.  Further, the
propsect is encouraged sincerely to study the Book of Mormon and "The
divine truths it contains."

   The Book of Mormon indeed does contain a number of "divine truths",
first set forth in the Bible, the most important of which are:

1. GOD IS SPIRIT
  Alma 18:28 (p. 242) - "Believest, thou that this Great Spirit, who
  is God, created all things".

2. TRINITARIAN VIEW OF GOD
  3 Nephi 11:27 (p. 422) - "Verily I say unto you, that the Father and
  the Son and the Holy Ghost are one."  In addition, three close
  associates of Joseph Smith who gave testimony of the authenticity
  of the Book of Mormon, close with words: "And the honor be to the
  Father, and to the Son and to the Holy Ghost, WHICH IS ONE GOD.
  Amen." (emphasis added)  This endorsement is found in the front of
  every Book of Mormon and further documents the Book of Mormon's
  acknowledgement of the triune nature of God.

3. GOD IS UNCHANGEABLE
  Moroni 8:18 (p. 517) - "For I know that God is not a partial God,
  neither a changeable being; but he is unchangable from all eternity
  to all eternity."

4. NO SALVATION AFTER DEATH
  Mosiah 3:25 (p. 141) - "And if they be evil they are consigned to an
  awful view of their own guilt and abominations, which doth cause them
  to shrink from the presence of the Lord into a state of misery and
  endless torment, from whence they can no more return; therefore they
  have drunk damnation to their own souls."

5. ONLY TWO DESTINATIONS AFTER DEATH
  Mosiah 16:11 (p. 166) - "If they be good, to the resurrection of
  endless life and happiness; and if they be evil, to the resurrection
  of endless damnation."

6. SALVATION BY CHRIST"S WORK - NOT MAN'S
  Helaman 5:9 (p. 369) - "...remember that there is no other way nor
  means whereby mn can be saved, only through the atoning blood of
  Jesus Christ, who shall come, yea, remember that he cometh to
  redeem the world."

   The Book of Mormon also emphasizes the need for spiritual rebirth.
For example Alma 5:14 states "And now behold, I ask of you, my
brethren of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God?  Have ye
recieved his image in your countenances?  Have ye experienced this
mighty change in your hearts?"

   Much of the major theology set forth in the Book of Mormon is indeed
in harmony with orthodox Christianity.  However, many who are visited
by the LDS Missionaries are unaware that the present theology of the
Mormon Church is very different from their own Book of Mormon.
Further, not only are today's major doctrines different, they are in
total opposition with this work of Joseph Smith, Jr., for which he
claimed divine inspiration.

   Mormon theology is not contained in, but rather contradicted by the
Book of Mormon.  The members of the Mormon Church now turn to newer
publications and revelations for their beliefs.  A brief examination
of some of these will document the contradictions.

1. Mormonism today teaches "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as
tangible as man's" (Doctrine & Covenants 130:22).

2. Joseph Smith, later in his life, flatly denied the Trinity: "Many
men say there is one God, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost are
one God!  I saw that is a strange God anyhow - three in one, and one
in three!"  He further concludes that the Father, Son and the Holy
Ghost are not one God, but rather three Gods (History of the Church
6:474, 476).

3. The LDS Church no longer adheres to the unchangeable nature of God,
but rather states:  "God himself was once as we are now and is an
exalted man...We have imagined and supposed that God was God from all
eternity.  I will refute that idea and take away the veil, so that you
may see".  (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345).

4. Bruce R. McConkie announces on page 73 of his work, 'Mormon
Doctrine':  "The Lord has ordained baptism for the dead as the means
whereby all his worthy children of all ages can become heirs of
salvation in his kingdom."

5. Mormonism today informs its members that all mankind will occupy
one of three heavenly kingdoms.  The highest is the Celestial Kingdom
(which itself contains various levels).  This kingdom is reserved for
all faithful Mormons and could lead to Godhood for the male members
there.  The middle Kingdom, the Terrestial Kingdom, is for those who
did not accept the gosple according to Mormonism, but who lived an
honorable life.  The lowest or Telestial Kingdom sill contain murders,
adulters, liars and thieves.  (Doctrine & Covenants section 76).  Hell
in Mormonism is usually thought to be only a temporary state of
suffering, which can be terminated through self-atonement.  In
summary, all will be resurrected and recieve some degree of glory,
according to Mormonism.

6. Mormons believe not in the infinite atonement of Christ, but rather
that "redemption from personal sins can only be obtained through
obedience to the requirements of the Gospel, AND A LIFE OF GOOD
WORKS."  (emphasis added) (Talmage, Articles of Faith pgs. 478-479)

   These changes and contradictions contained within these easily
available LDS Scriptures leave no doubt as to the human, man made
origin of Mormonism.

   While Mormons regard the Bible as the Word of God however, the Bible
is actually placed lower and superseded by their other Scriptures,
which in addition to the Book of Mormon include the Doctrine &
Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price.  This devaluation of the Bible
is found within the LDS Articles of Faith, in the Pearl of Great
Price, where it is stated that Mormons "believe the Bible in so far as
it is correctly translated."

   God's word, the Bible, has definitely stood the test of time, where
as in its short existance the Book of Mormon has not.  The Bible, has
been used by and confirmed by archeology, - the Book of Mormon has
not.  The Bible, has through recent ancient manuscript discoveries,
been demonstrated to have been transmitted and translated accurately,
where the Book of Mormon contains nearly 4000 textual changes from the
first edition in 1830 to the present editions used today, and has
recieved further changes in the new 1981 "Triple Combination" edition.

   The presence of "Divine Truths" within the Book of Mormon is merely
a result of Joseph Smith, Jr. incorporating much of the Bible into his
work.  (see 'The use of the Bible in the Book of Mormon by H. Michael
Marquardt).  Thus, the Book of Mormon must be regarded as fiction, not
as inspired Scripture.

   Changes within Mormonism and the Book of Mormon make it clear that
Mormonism is not from God.  God's word does not change.  Jesus Christ
is the same yesterday, today and forever (Hebrews 13:8) and His Word
shall never pass away (Psalm 119:89; Matthew 24:35).  The Jesus Christ
who shed his blood on Calvary's cross to save you is not the Jesus of
present-day Mormonism.  Jesus invites all people to experience a
spiritual rebirth and to recieve the free gift of eternal life by
trusting in him alone for salvation.

   Write to us and let us share with you more information concerning
our Risen Saviour Jesus Christ and how you can recieve Him.

                   PERSONAL FREEDOM OUTREACH
Route 3 Weir Lake Rd., Kunkletown, PA. 18058  (215) 381-3661
P.O. Box 26062, Saint Louis, MO.  63136  (314) 388-2648
P.O. Box 30073, Phoenix, AZ.  85046  (602)867-0538
P.O. Box 15081, Santa Ana, CA.  92705  (714) 832-9385

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon


This article is an exact reproduction of a letter compiled by The 
Smithsonian Institution that was recieved by Computers for 
Christ, and has been graciously provided free of charge by them.  
For your own copy, write to:

The Smithsonian Institute
National Museum of Natural History
Department of Anthropology
Washington D.C. 
20560.

Computers For Christ, Panama City, Fl.

----------------------------------------------------------------
[Page 1]

Information from the

              NATIONAL MUSEUM OF OF NATURAL HISTORY
             Smithsonian Institution  Washington D.C.

  Your recent inquiry concerning the Book of Mormon has been 
received in the Smithsonian's Department of Anthropology.

  The book of Mormon is a religious document and not a scientific 
guide.  The Smithsonian Institution does not use it in 
archeological research.  Because the Smithsonian Institution 
recieves many inquiries regarding the book of Mormon, we have 
prepared a "Statement Regarding the Book of Mormon," a copy of 
which is enclosed for your information.  This statement 
includes answers to questions most commonly asked about the Book 
of Mormon.

                           PREPARED BY
                  THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTROPOLOGY

----------------------------------------------------------------
[Page 2]

             STATEMENT REGARDING THE BOOK OF MORMON
             --------------------------------------

1.  The Smithsonian Institution has never used the Book of Mormon 
in any way as a scientific guide.  The Smithsonian archeologists 
see no direct connection between archeology of the New World and 
the subject matter of the book.

2.  The physical type of American Indian is basically Mongoloid, 
being most closely related to that of the peoples of eastern, 
central, and northeastern Asia.  Archeological evidence indicates 
that the ancestors of the present Indians came into the New World 
-- probably over a land bridge known to have existed in the 
Bering Staight region during the last Ice Age -- in a continuing 
series of small migrations beginning from about 25,000 to 30,000 
years ago.

3.  Present evidence indicates that the fist people to reach this 
continent from the East were the Norsemen who who briefly visited 
the northeastern part of North America around A.D. 1000 and then 
settled in Greenland.  There is nothing to show that they reached 
Mexico or Central America.

4.  One of the main lines of evidence supporting the scientific 
finding that contacts with Old World civilizations, if indeed 
they occured at all, were of very little significance for the 
development of American Indian civilizations, is the fact that 
none of the principal Old World domesticated food plants or 
animals (except the dog) occured in the New World in pre-
Columbian times.  American Indians had no wheat, barley, oats, 
millet, rice, cattle, pigs, chickens, horses, donkeys, camels 
before 1492.  (camels and horses were in the Americas, along with 
the bison, mammoth, mastodon, but all these animals became 
extinct around 10,000 B.C. at the time the early big game hunters 
spread across the Americas.)


SIL - 76
Summer 1982

-----------------------------------------------------------------
[Page 3]


5.  Iron, steel, glass, and silk were not used in the New World 
before 1492 (except for occasional use of unsmelted meteroic 
iron).  Native copper was worked in various locations in pre-
Columbian times, but true metallurgy was limited to southern 
Mexico and the Andean region, where its occurance in late 
prehistoric times involved gold, silver, copper, and their 
alloys, but not iron.

6.  There is a possibility that the spread of cultural traits 
across the Pacific to Mesoamerica and the northwestern coast of 
South America began several hundred years before the Christian 
era.  However, any such inter-hemispheric contacts appear to have 
been the results of accidental voyages originating in eastern and 
southern Asia.  It is by no means certain that even such contacts 
occured with the ancient Egyptians, Hebrews, or other peoples of 
Western Asia and the Near East.

7.  No reputable Egyptologist or other specialist on Old World 
archeology, and no expert on New World prehistory, has discovered 
or confirmed any relationship between archeological remains in 
Mexico and archeological remains in Egypt.

8.  Reports of findings of ancient Egyptian, Hebrew, and other 
Old World writtings in the New World in pre-Columbian contexts 
have frequently appeared in newspapers, magazines and sensational 
books.  None of these claims has stood up to examination by 
reputable scholars.  No inscriptions using Old World forms of 
writing have been shown to have occured in any part of the 
Americas before 1492 except for a few Norse rune stones which 
have been found in Greenland.

9.  There are copies of the Book of Mormon in the library of the 
National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution.

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

           Mormons Own up to Joseph Smith's Occultism

   Mark Hofmann, the Salt Lake City documents dealer on trial for
murder, recently admitted in court that he planted the two bombs that
killed Steven Christensen and Katherine Sheets and that he forged at
least two documents purported to be key pieces in the puzzle of early
Mormon church history.

   This affair has dealt a great blow to the reputation of the Mormon
church.  The church has had to admit that it was buying documents from
hofmann to prevent their publication.  The documents dealt with Mormon
prophet Joseph Smith's money-digging and involvement in occult
practices.  The church, in its zeal to keep the purchases secret,
played right into Hofmann's hands by not having the documents examined
for authenticity.  Sure enough, the documents later were found to be
forgeries.

   Despite this, the documents forced Mormon scholars to own up to
Smith's background in occult practices and acknowledge that, the
documents aside, there was enough evidence to prove Smith's occult
involvement.

   Therefore, Mormon scholars have begun trying to justify Smith's
practices, saying that he wasn't any worse than anybody else living at
that time because belief in and practice of magic was pervasive in
18th and early 19th century America.

   The scholars go on to say that it was the coming of the
enlightenment and rationalism that changed people's outlook on occult
practices.  These scholars say that since we don't live in that
culture any longer, it's hard for us to put ourselves in those
people's shoes.

   However, research shows that as early as 1788 in New York, and
equally as early as Vermont, there were laws against occult practices
such as palmistry and witchcraft and that the press was generally
unfavorable to such claims.

   Undaunted by that, Mormon scholars are now trying to find rationale
for Smith's occult practices.  MORMON SCHOLAR DR. RICHARD ANDERSON
CONCEDED IN HIS LATEST BYU STUDIES ARTICLE THAT SMITH DID INDEED
PRACTICE MAGIC, (emphasis mine) but only up to 1826.  When he dug up
the gold plates, Anderson says, he realized that he had a serious
mission and put his teenage follies behind him.

   While this scenario is at best questionable, it does have one of
the staunch defenders of Mormon faith admitting that during the time
Smith supposedly was being prepared for the life of a prophet, he was
immersed in the occult and digging for money.

From the April-June PFO by WPW

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                            THE NATURE OF GOD



   There is but ONE GOD


   The BIBLE states that there has been, and presently is, and always
will be only ONE GOD.  History and the BIBLE show that the Jewish people
always believed in ONE GOD of the UNIVERSE.  The Jewish nation however,
was lured time and time again, into going after "other gods" that were
worshipped by the people surrounding Israel.  That was the sin GOD hated
and punished them for practicing.  (Jeremiah 2:11, 11:9-13, 19:13)

   In direct contrast, MORMONISM has a basic belief in many gods.  The
Father, Son and Holy Ghost (in Mormonism) are three separate gods. There
were gods before them and will be gods to follow:

    "If we should take a million worlds like this and number their
    particles, we should find that there are more gods than there are
    particles of matter in those worlds."
    (JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 2, page 345 [Feb 1855] Orson Pratt)

    "Many men say there is one God; the Father, the Son, and the Holy
    Spirit are only one God.  I say that is a strange God, anyhow -
    Three in one and one in three.  It is a curious organization ...
    all are to be crammed into one God, according to sectarianism. 
    It would make the biggest   God in all the world .... he would be
    a giant or a monster."
    (TEACHING OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 372)
    (HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 476)

    "In the beginning, the head of the Gods called a council of the
    Gods, and they came together and concocted a plan to create the
    world and people it."
    (JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Joseph Smith, Vol 6, page 5)
    (HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 308)


   Mormons will say they worship only one God.  But, whether they
worship them or not, believing in the valid existence of many gods -- of
the same authority and reality of the one God -- makes you a polytheist!
False Prophets have always led the people of history (and the current
peoples of the earth) to go after other gods (Deuteronomy 13:1 to 13).
God's strongest wrath was then and is now upon people who worship or
believe in other gods (Jeremiah 16:10-13 and 22:8-9).  Mormonism teaches
that "Father God" is married and has many wives:

    "In the heaven where our spirits were born, there are many Gods,
    each of whom has his own wife or wives, which were given to him
    previous to his redemption while yet in his mortal state."
    (THE SEER, Orson Pratt, page 37)


   Look up John 10:34 used by Mormons to justify a belief in "many
Gods".  Jesus there, is quoting Psalm 82 in which the judges were
referred to as "gods" -- but were wicked and unjust and "die like all
men".  Anytime the word "gods" occur in the BIBLE it must be verified in
context as referring to the idols, satanic princes or counterfeit gods  -
(Isaiah 41:23 and 24 and 45:20).

                               IN CONTRAST


   The BIBLE states throughout there is but ONE GOD!  Look up these
verses:

ISAIAH 43:10-11  "Before me NO god was formed, nor after"

     44: 6-8   "I am the first and the last, beside me no other"

     45: 5-6   "I am the Lord, and there is no other"

     45:18-22  "HE created the heavens and earth-there is no other"
DEUT.   6:4      "Hear O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord"
       32:39     "There is no god beside me"
PSALM  86:10     "Thou alone art God"
MARK   12:29     "Jesus said, the Lord our God is one; no other"
GAL.    3:20     "God is one"
JAMES   2:19     "You believe God is one - you do well"
EPH.    4:5-6    "One God and Father of us all"
I COR.  8:4-6    "There is no god but me"


                             GOD IS INFINITE


    The BIBLE states that God has always been the same from all time in
eternity past and does not change.  In direct opposition to this, the
Mormon Church has the basic belief that God was once a man, with many
gods before Him and many gods to come after Him.  They further believe
that God is progressing to higher levels of power and ability:

    "God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted Man, and
    sits enthroned in yonder heavens ...... it is necessary that we
    should understand the character and being of God, and how He came
    to be so; for I am going to tell you how God came to be God.  We
    have imagined and supposed that God was God from all eternity.  I
    will refute that idea, and will take away the veil, so that you
    may see .... he was once a man like us; yea, that God himself the
    Father of us all, dwelt on an earth the same as Jesus Christ
    did."
    (TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 345)
    (JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES Vol 6, page 3)
    (HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 305)

    "As man is, God once was; as God is, man may become."
    (THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES, Milton R. Hunter, pages 105 & 106)

    "Our Eternal Father has attained His position of exaltation and
    Godhood by obedience to the great law of progression ... was once
    a mortal man who passed through a school of earth-life similar to
    that which we are now passing."
    (THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES, Milton R. Hunter, pages 12 & 104)

    "Through modern revelations we learn that the universe is filled
    with vast numbers of intelligences, and we further learn that
    Elohim is God simply because all of these intelligences honor and
    sustain him as such --- But God acquired the honor and sustaining
    influence of 'all things'. It follows as a corollary that if He
    should ever do anything to violate the confidence or 'sense of
    justice' of these intelligences, they would promptly withdraw
    their support, and the 'power' of God would disintegrate --- He
    would cease to be God.  Our Heavenly Father can do only those
    things which the intelligences under Him are voluntarily willing
    to support Him in accomplishing."
    (THE FIRST 2000 YEARS, W. Cleon Skousen *,pages 355,356)

     FREEMEN INSTITUTE PRESIDENT & B.Y.U. Professor of Mormonism teaches
that God is confined to a body of flesh and bones.  He is at a particular
place at a particular time.  The Mormon "god" is a SMALL "god."  You can
have tremendous faith in a god - BUT, if that god is not THE GOD, then
all that tremendous faith is meaningless.  Elijah once challenged the
priests of "another god" to start a fire, and the "god" who was able to
do so would be recognized as THE GOD.  The priests for this wooden idol, 
with great faith and efforts prayed and prayed to their god to bring down
fire to prove his godhood.  Elijah even became somewhat sarcastic when he
asked a rhetorical question of "Maybe your god is asleep?  Maybe you
should cry out louder to wake him up?".  After all these efforts, nothing
happened!

   It didn't matter if the priest and believers of that "god" had a
great faith because the OBJECT of that faith was incapable of fulfilling
the promise of that faith.  The ONE and TRUE GOD fulfills our prayers.

    "If God possesses a form, that form is of necessity of definite
    proportions, and therefore of limited extension and space.  It is
    impossible for Him to occupy at one time more than one space of
    such limits."
    (ARTICLES OF FAITH, James E. Talmage, pages 42 and 43)

    "I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all
    description, standing above me in the air.  One of them spake
    unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other -
    'This is my Beloved Son.  Hear Him!"
    (PEARL OF GREAT PRICE, Joseph Smith 2:17)

    "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's."
    (DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, 130, v:22)

    "God himself is increasing in knowledge, power, and dominion and
    will do so, worlds without end."
    (JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES,Prophet Wilford Woodruff, Vol 6, Pg 120)

    "We were begotten by our Father in heaven; the person of our
    Father in Heaven was begotten on a previous heavenly world by His
    Father; and again, He was begotten by still a more ancient Father
    ...."
    (THE SEER, Orson Pratt, Page 132)

     The BIBLE states throughout that GOD IS INFINITE!  We ask that you
look up these proofs:
II CHRONICLES 6:18
   "Heaven and the Heaven of Heavens cannot contain thee."
PSALM 41:13 (90:2)
    "God is from everlasting to everlasting"
PSALM 102:25-27
   "created heavens, always the same without end"
PSALM 139:4-8
   "Omniscient and Omnipresent"
JEREMIAH 23:24
   "I fill heaven and earth"
HOSEA 11:9
   "I am God, and not man"
MALACHI 4:39
   "I do not change"
NEHEMIAH 9:6
   "made Heaven, Heaven of Heavens and all their host"
PROVERBS 15:3
   "His eyes in every place"
ROMANS 1:22-23
   The sin of changing God into image of man is addressed
ACTS 17:27
   "He is not far from each of us"
JOHN 4:24
   "God is Spirit"
LUKE 24:39
   "A Spirit has not flesh and bones"
HEBREWS 4:13
   "All things opened unto His eyes"
I JOHN 4:12
   "No man has seen God at any time"
I TIMOTHY 6:15
   "No man has seen, nor can see ..."
JOHN 1:18
   "No man has seen God at any time"
EXODUS 33:20
   "There shall be no man see me and live"

   It is clear that the BIBLE refutes the Mormon church's claims and
the claims of its prophets and leaders in a most specific manner.
Brigham Young, second Prophet and President of the Mormon Church taught
that ADAM was "our Father and our God...":

    "When our father Adam came into the Garden of Eden, he came into
    it with a celestial body, and brought Eve, one of his wives, with
    him ... He is our Father and our God, and the only God with whom
    we have to do ... When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus,
    the Father had begotten Him in His own likeness.  He was not
    begotten by the Holy Ghost.  And who is the Father?  He is the
    first of the human family...."
    (JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 1, page 50, April 9,1852)

    "I have learned by experience that there is but one God that
    pertains to this people, and He is the God that pertains to this
    earth - the first man.  That first man sent His own Son to redeem
    the world ..."
    (JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 4,pg 1,June 29,1856)
    Prophet & President Heber C. Kimball

    "How much unbelief exists in the minds of the Latter-Day Saints
    in regard to a particular doctrine which I revealed to them, and
    which God revealed to me -- namely, that Adam is our Father and
    our God ... Our Father, Adam helped to make this earth, it was
    created expressly for him .... He   brought one of his wives with
    him, and she was called Eve ... Our Father Adam is the man who
    stands at the gate and holds the keys of everlasting life and
    salvation to all his children.."
    (DESERT NEWS, June 18,1873: Discourse by Prophet and President
    Brigham Young)

   Today, the Mormon Church adamantly denies the "ADAM-GOD" doctrine
taught, and as seen above, and affirmed by "Prophet" Brigham Young. There
is overwhelming evidence that he did teach, believed and strongly
defended this belief.  By any, reasonable, interpretation of the BIBLE,
Brigham Young must be classified as a FALSE PROPHET (see Deuteronomy 13:1
-10 and 18:20-22 - also Jeremiah 23:16-17)
     ADAM is not OUR god and NEVER will be!  The BIBLE states:

    ".... then the Lord God formed man of dust from the earth, and
    breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a
    living being." (Genesis 2:7)

   GOD is ONE and ETERNALLY the same.  Creator of the Heavens and the
Earth ... All powerful, all knowing, all present.  Despite the fact that
HE is INFINITE, he knows every hair on our heads and has a plan for each
of our lives (John 3:16 & 10:10).  It is far better to have a small faith
in THE TRUE GOD of the universe than to have a great faith in a small,
counterfeit god.  One should keep in mind that faith in a "counterfeit"
god is really no more than a misplaced faith in the false prophet and the
teaching of a false Prophet.  Remember - a counterfeit - to be called a
counterfeit - must "resemble" the GENUINE item.  If there are many
"counterfeit" gods, then there must be a REAL GOD, and HE is found in the
scriptures and in everything that surrounds us.

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                                LDS and Hell
                                ============


   The Mormon doctrine of Hell is most interesting, to be sure.  A
faithful Mormon provided the following:

   Hell:  That part of the spirit world inhabited by wicked spirits who are
awaiting the eventual day of their resurrection is called hell.  Between
their death and resurrection, these souls of the wicked are cast out into
outer darkness, into the gloomy depression of sheol, into the hades of
waiting wicked spirits, into hell.  There they suffer the torments of the
damned; there they welter in the vengeance of eternal fire; there is
found weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth; there the fiery
indignation of the wrath of God is poured out upon the wicked. (Alma
40:11-14; D. & C. 76:103-106.)

   Hell will have an end.  Viewing future events, John saw that "death
and hell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged
every man according to their works." (Rev. 20:13.)  Jacob taught that
this escape from death and hell meant the bringing of the body out of the
grave and the spirit out of hell.  "And this death of which I have
spoken, which is the spiritual death," he said, "shall deliver up its
dead; which spiritual death is hell; wherefore, death and hell must
deliver up their dead, and hell must deliver up its captive spirits, and
the graves must deliver up its captive bodies, and the bodies and the
spirits of men will be restored one to the other." (2 Ne. 9:10-12)  It
was in keeping with this principle for David to receive the promise:
"Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell." (Ps. 16:10; Acts 2:27.)

   After the resurrection, the great majority of those who have
suffered in hell will pass into the telestial kingdom; the balance,
cursed as sons of perdition, will be consigned to partake of endless woe
with the devil and his angels.  Speaking of the telestial kingdom the
Lord says: "These are they who are thrust down to hell.  These are they
who shall not be redeemed from the devil untill the last resurrection,
untill the Lord, even Christ the Lamb, shall have finished his
work....These are they who are cast down to hell and suffer the wrath of
Almighty God, untill the fulness of times." (D. & C. 76:84-85, 106.)  As
to the sons of perdition, the revelation says that after their
resurrection, "they shall return again to their own place." (D. & C. 88:3
2, 102), that is, they shall go back to dwell in the lake of fire with 
Perdition and his other sons.  Thus those in hell "are the rest of the
dead; and they live not again until the thousand years are ended, neither
again, until the end of the earth." (D. & C. 88:101.)

   Statements about an everlasting and endless hell (Hela. 6:28; Moro. 
8:13), are to be interpreted in the same sense as those about eternal and
endless punishment. (D. & C. 19:4-12; 76:44, 105.)

   Who will go to hell?  This query is abundantly answered in the
scriptures.  Since those going to a telestial kingdom travel to their
destination through the depths of hell and as a result of obedience to
telestial law, it follows that all those who live a telestial law will go
to hell.  Included among these are the carnal, sensual, and devilish -
those who live after the manner of the  world.  Among them are the
sorcerers, adulterers, whoremongers (D. & C. 76:103), false swearers,
"those that oppress the hireling in his wages," the proud "and that do
wickedly." (Mal. 3; 4; 2 Ne. 9:27-39, 26:10.) 

   Several specific groups of wicked persons are singled out to receive
the prophetic curse that their destination is the fires of hell.  "The
wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forgot God,"
David proclaimed (Ps. 9:17).  Sex sin is rewarded with the torments of
hell (2 Ne. 9:36; Prov. 7:6-27).  "Wo unto all those that discomfort my
people, and drive, and murder, and testify against them, saith the Lord
of Hosts; a generation of vipers shall not escape the damnation of hell"
(D. & C. 121:23).  So also is the fate of liars (2 Ne. 9:34), of all
those that preach false doctrines" (2 Ne. 28:15), of those that believe
the damnable doctrine of infant baptism (Moro. 8:14, 21), of the rich who
will not help the poor (D. & C. 104:18; Luke 16:19-31), and of those who
heap cursings on their fellow men (Matt. 5:22; 3 Ne. 12:22).  "The
sectarian world are going to hell by hundreds, by thousands and by
millions,"  the Prophet Joseph Smith said. (History of the Church, vol.
5, p. 554)

   To catch souls in his snares and then drag them down to hell is the
plan and program of the devil (D. & C. 10:26; Alma 30:60).  One of his
latter-day wiles is to persuade men that there is neither a devil nor a
hell and that the fear of eternal torment is baseless (2 Ne. 28:21-23).
But Christ, who holds "the keys of hell and of death" (Rev. 1:18), and
can therefore control and abolish them, has power to save and redeem men
from hell (2 Ne. 33:6; Alma  19:29; 26:13-14).  This he does on
conditions of repentance and obedience to his laws.  But the unrepentant
"would be more miserable to dwell with a holy and just God, under a
consciousness of" their "filthiness before him, than" they "would to
dwell with the damned souls in hell" (Morm. 9:4).

   After death and hell have delivered up the bodies and captive
spirits which were in them, then, as John foresaw, "death and hell were
cast into the lake of fire" (Rev. 20:14).  This lake of fire, a figure
symbolical of eternal anguish and woe, is also called hell, but is a hell
reserved exclusively for the devil and his angels which includes the sons
of perdition (D. & C. 29:38; 88:113; 2 Pet. 2:4).

   Speaking of this hell, and writing of events to take place after the
resurrection and the judgment, and thus of a day after those going to a
telestial kingdom have come out of their hell, Jacob says: "And asuredly,
as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God hath spoken it, and it is his
eternal word, which cannot pass away, that they who are righteous shall
be righteous still, and they who are filthy shall be filthy still;
wherefore, they who are filthy are the devil and his angels; and they
shall go away into everlasting fire, prepared for them; and their torment
is as a lake of fire and brimstone, whose flame ascendeth up forever and
ever and has no end" (2 Ne. 9:16).

   Thus, for those who are heirs of some salvation, which includes all
except the sons of perdition (D. & C. 76:44), hell has an end, but for
those who have  wholly given themselves over to satanic purposes there is
no redemption from  the consuming fires and torment of conscience.  They
go on forever in the hell that is prepared for them.
 
   As one can see, their doctrine is extremely different from the
classical, orthodox doctrine of Hell.  The following LDS differences are
most noteworthy (based on the fact that, in the Mormon church, all
scriptures, doctrines, and teachings are "interpreted" via their
"prophet" instead of scripture interpreting the sayings, doctrines, etc.
of their "prophet"):
 
   1) Hell is no more than a "prison", and the inmates look forward to
      a "parole" after serving their "sentence" and being "purified" of
      their sins.  Thus they'll reside in the "telestial" heaven, the
      lowest of the 3 Mormon heavens. 

   2) Hell, therefore, isn't eternal.

   3) However, those who are condemned in the "second death", or second
      judgment, will reside there forever ("second death", meaning
      those spirits in "hell" who didn't convert to Mormonism).
 
   4) As such, the "eternal torment" is no more than temporary
      suffering (as the "prophet" defined eternal). 
 
   5) It's the devil's plan to drag people down to hell by convincing
      them that it doesn't exist (by LDS definition, that is).
      However, the BOM in 2 Nephi 28:21-23, if taken at face value
      (without any "prophet's interpretation"), condemns the Mormon to
      Hell since he's convinced that it doesn't exist as classically
      and orthodoxically defined.  Here's the text of the scripture:

    "And others will he pacify and lull them away into carnal
    security that they will say: 'all is well in zion; yea Zion
    prospereth, and is well'-and the devil cheateth their souls, and
    leadeth them down to HELL. And behold, others he flattereth away,
    and telleth them 'THERE IS NO HELL'; and he saith unto them; 'I
    am no devil, FOR THERE IS NONE'-and thus he whispereth in their
    ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence
    there is no deliverance.  Yea, they are grasped with DEATH, AND
    HELL; AND DEATH, AND HELL, and the devil, and all that have been
    seized therewith must stand before the throne of God, and be
    judged according to their works, from whence they must go into
    the place prepared for them, EVEN A LAKE OF FIRE AND BRIMSTONE,
    WHICH IS ENDLESS TORMENT." (Emphasis authors)  2 Nephi 28:21-23 
 
 
   Even though, the Mormon teaching sounds orthodox, one must remember
that, according to the LDS, everything is to be "interpreted" by their
"prophet" Joseph Smith, Jr.  As such, man, rather than God, is used to
make scriptural judgments.  Therefore, their doctrine is a heresy and as
such paves the way to hell, rather than righteousness (as the LDS would
have the world to believe).


                   Bible and Hell
                   ==============


   The Bible, being God's established scriptural standard, has a
different story to tell.
   Hell is the destination of all souls who've chosen to reject Jesus
and live in their sins.  The Book of Revelation is an excellent reference
to defining Hell and all who'll reside there at the times of Judgment.
   Jesus, Himself, gave vivid and graphic descriptions of Hell.  Here
are some of His teachings:

   1) Hell is a place of outer darkness (Mat. 8:11-12, 22:11-14,
      25:31-46).

   2) Hell is eternally separated from Heaven and God.  As such, once  
      in Hell, there is no escape to Heaven, or anyplace else (Luke    
      16:19-26). 
 
   3) Hell is a place of eternal fire and torment (Mat. 13:40-43,
      25:31-46, Mark 9:45-48).

   As one can see from the above examples, Hell isn't a pleasant place,
or one that anyone can escape from once placed there.


               The Book of Mormon and Hell 
               =========================== 


   The Book of Mormon tends to agree with the Bible where the subject
of eternal Hell is concerned.  Here are some passages from it.  All
emphases are the author's, single quotes are for clarity only, they do
not appear in the cited passages:

    "And others will he pacify and lull them away into carnal
    security that they will say: 'all is well in zion; yea Zion
    prospereth, and is well 'and the devil cheateth their souls, and
    leadeth them down to HELL.  And behold, others he flattereth
    away, and telleth them 'THERE IS NO HELL'; and he saith unto
    them; 'I am no devil, FOR THERE IS NONE'-and thus he whispereth
    in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from
    whence there is no deliverance.  Yea, they are grasped with
    DEATH, AND HELL; AND DEATH, AND HELL, and the devil, and all that
    have been seized therewith must stand before the throne of God,
    and be judged according to their works, from whence they must go
    into the place prepared for them, EVEN A LAKE OF FIRE AND
    BRIMSTONE, WHICH IS ENDLESS TORMENT.  2 Nephi 28:21-23

    "For behold, if ye have procrastinated the day of your repentance
    even until death, behold, ye have become subjected to the spirit
    of the devil, and he doth seal you his; therefore, the spirit of
    the Lord hath withdrawn from you, and hath no place in you, and
    the devil hath all power over you; and this is the final state of
    the wicked."  Alma 34:35

    "Now, repentance could not come unto men except there were a
    punishment, which also was eternal as the life of the soul should
    be, affixed opposite to the plan of happiness, which was as
    eternal also as the life of the soul."  Alma 42:16

    "Therefore if that man repenteth not, and remaineth and dieth an
    enemy to God, the demands of divine justice do awaken his
    immortal soul to a lively sense of his own GUILT, and PAIN, and
    ANGUISH, which is like AN UNQUENCHABLE FIRE WHOSE FLAME ASCENDETH
    UP FOREVER AND EVER.  And now I say unto you, that mercy hath NO
    CLAIM on that man; therefore his final doom is to ENDURE A
    NEVER-ENDING TORMENT.  O, all ye old men, and also ye young men,
    and you little children who can understand my words, for I have
    spoken plainly that you might understand, and I pray that ye
    should awake to a remembrance of the awful situation of those who
    have fallen into transgression.  And moreover, I would desire
    that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those
    who that keep the commandments of God.  For behold, they are
    blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they
    hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven, and
    thereby they may dwell with God in a STATE OF NEVERENDING
    HAPPINESS.  O remember, remember that these things are true; for
    THE LORD GOD HATH SPOKEN IT."  Mosiah 2:38-41
 
   As one can see, according to the BOM, the doctrine of no hell or
devil is from the devil, and those who profess same are bound up in his
chains and destined for the hell that they don't believe in.  Hell is a
place of  eternal pain, anguish, and torment with no chance of relief,
whereas heaven is eternal happiness to those who follow the commandments
of God, not man (or a "prophet", for that matter!).  It seems that the
Mormon church has a lot to learn from their own "Bible."
 
 
                              Ken Simmons

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                          THE REAL HOLY SPIRIT


   In Mormonism the "Holy Ghost" is a personage, or a god, but the
"Holy Spirit" is an impersonal force.  The Mormons refer to verses that
the Holy Spirit is symbolized by oil, fire and water and show that these
are "impersonal".  The Bible  refers to the Father and the Son as "bread
of life", "living water" and other "impersonal" terms.  Again, we must
look at the context.

   In John 16:7, our Lord is placing His emphasis on His going away and
the Holy Spirit's being sent by the Father to replace our Lord himself. 
This change (or replacement), Jesus  says, would be beneficial for His 
disciples.  AN IMPERSONAL FORCE COULD HARDLY IMPROVE ON THE PERSONAL
PRESENCE OF OUR LORD, JESUS CHRIST!

   The word in Hebrew and the word in Greek for SPIRIT and GHOST both 
mean the same, "breath or wind" and the "translators" of the King James
Bible noted that the Greek word denoted a neuter gender and was
mistranslated to be an "IT," but they did utilize the word Ghost and
Spirit and interchanged them on many occasions.  The words as translated
are from only ONE word in Hebrew and ONE word in Greek - therefore there
is NOT two words for SPIRIT and GHOST - only ONE.  Now, let's look at
this ONE entity called the HOLY SPIRIT.  In John 16:13 and 14 we see our 
Lord Jesus telling us this about the Holy Spirit, "HE shall not speak of
HIMSELF ... HE shall glorify me ... HE shall receive of mine ....".  NOTE
that our LORD gives PERSONALITY to the Spirit.  Otherwise our Lord would 
have used the term that Mormons use "IT."

   Jesus repeatedly (John  16:7-15) uses the MASCULINE PERSONAL pronoun
"He" when referring to the Spirit.  Jesus used the term clearly to tell
us that the Spirit had personality and intimacy.  Ananias was struck dead
for lying to the HOLY SPIRIT (Acts 5:3).  You cannot lie to an impersonal
force!  It would be like walking up to a window box fan, turning it on 
and facing its "force" and then telling lie after lie to it  - IT WOULD
NOT CARE THE SLIGHTEST, WOULD IT?  Now, you look at Ananias and, if you
are not a complete idiot, you would not repeat his behavior, now would
you?  The Holy Spirit and the Holy Ghost are not two different items
mentioned in  the Bible.  There is only one entity referred to as both 
HOLY GHOST and HOLY SPIRIT.

   The Holy Spirit is a person.  The Spirit may be "grieved" (Ephesians 
4:30) and "sinned against" by UNFORGIVABLE blasphemy (Mark 3:29).  None
of these things are possible for an "impersonal force".
The Holy Ghost does things which only a person COULD do.

                    He SPEAKS:
   "The Spirit said unto Philip, 'Go near'" (Acts 8:29)

   "The Spirit also helpeth our infirmity ... [and] MAKETH INTERCESSION
for us." (Romans 8:26)

                   He STRIVES:
   "My Spirit shall not strive with man forever" (Genesis 6:3)

            He REVEALS, SEARCHES, and KNOWS:
   "But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the Spirit
searcheth all things ... the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit
of God" (I Corinthians 2:10,11). 

   Other verses can be shown that the Spirit IDENTIFIES with believers
(Acts 15:28), The Spirit is ETERNAL (Hebrews 9:14), OMNIPRESENT (Psalm 
139:7-10), DOES GOD'S WORK (Genesis 1:2), INVOLVED IN REGENERATION (John 
3:8), participates in the RESURRECTION (Romans 8:11).  Paul identifies 
the Spirit as the speaker to Isaiah.  Acts 28:25-26 and Isaiah 6:8-9.  An
impersonal force does not counsel, speak, feel, or anything resembling 
personality.  The HOLY SPIRIT is a person - one of the THREE ENTITIES 
of the ONE TRUE GOD.

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

        The Jesus WE KNOW contrasted to the "Jesus" of Mormonism


     The one true Jesus of the BIBLE, of all eternity God the Son, who
died that we may have eternal life; who paid the price of all sins; who
has entered our lives and is walking with us in a personal relationship
day by day -- is not known in Mormonism.  The Jesus of Mormonism is an
entirely different "Jesus".  Let's examine what the leaders and prophets
- the foundation of the Latter Day Saints Church - have said:

    "When the time came that His First-Born, the Saviour, should come
    into the world and take a tabernacle, the Father Himself came and
    favoured the Spirit with a tabernacle instead of letting any
    other MAN do it .... The Saviour was begotten by the Father of
    His spirit, by the same being who is the Father of our spirits,
    and that is all the organic difference between Jesus Christ and
    you and me"
    (BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 4:218)

    "The fleshly body of Jesus required a Mother as well as a Father.
    Therefore, the Father and Mother of Jesus, according to the
    flesh, must have been associated together in the capacity of
    Husband and Wife; hence the Virgin Mary must have been, for the
    time being, the lawful wife of God the Father."
    (ORSON PRATT, The Seer, pg 158)

    "Christ was begotten by an immortal Father in the same way that
    mortal men are begotten by mortal fathers -----  And Christ was
    born into the world as the Literal Son of this Holy Being; He was
    born in the same personal, real, and literal sense that any
    mortal son is born of a mortal father.  There is nothing
    figurative about his paternity; He was begotten, conceived and
    born in the normal and natural course of events, for He is the
    Son of God, and that designation means what it says."
    (BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, pg 547,742)

     Brigham Young, to be consistent with his "Adam-God" doctrine,
believed Adam was the literal father of Jesus Christ:

    "When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, the Father had
    begotten him in his own likeness.  He was not begotten by the
    Holy Ghost.  And who is the Father?  He is the first of the human
    family ... Jesus, our elder brother, was begotten in the flesh by
    the same character that was in the Garden of Eden, and who is our
    Father in Heaven."
    (BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 1:50,51)

     As is evident in these statements, there is no Virgin Birth in
Mormonism.  On the other hand, the Bible clearly shows us:

     Matthew  1:18   Mary with child of the Holy Spirit
              1:20   That which is conceived in her is of the
                     Holy Spirit
              1:23   Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a
                     son
     Luke     1:35   The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the
                     power of the Most High will overshadow you

     Further, the "Jesus" of Mormonism was married in polygamy and had
children.  This had to be so to be consistent with the doctrines of
Joseph Smith, Junior.  As Joseph reports as a "revelation" given him by
God on July 12,1843:

    "I am the Lord thy God .... obey the instructions I am about to
    give unto you .... if ye abide not that covenant, then ye are
    damned; for no one can reject this covenant and be permitted to
    enter my Glory .... verily I say unto you, if  man marry a wife
    by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting
    covenant .... they shall be gods .... And again, as pertaining to
    the law of the priesthood - if any man espouses a virgin, and
    desire to espouse another, and the first give her consent, and if
    he espouse the second, and they are virgins, and have vowed to no
    other man, then he is justified .... and if he have ten virgins
    given unto him by the law, he cannot commit adultery, for they
    belong to him."
    (JOSEPH SMITH, Doctrine & Covenants, 132:2,3,4,19,20,61,62)

    "It will be borne in mind that once on a time, there was a
    marriage in Cana of Galilee, and on a careful reading of that
    transaction, it will be discovered that no less a person than
    Jesus Christ was married on that occasion."
    (ORSON HYDE, Journal of Discourses, 13:259)

    "How was it with Mary and Martha, and other women that followed
    Him?  In old times, and it is common to this day, the women, even
    Sarah, called their husbands 'LORD' .... Jesus was the bridegroom
    at the marriage of Cana of Galilee .... We say it was Jesus
    Christ who was married, to be brought into relation whereby he
    could see his seed, before He was crucified .... I shall say
    here, that before the Saviour died, he looked upon His own
    natural children, as we look upon ours."
    (ORSON HYDE, Journal of Discourses, 2:81,82)

     The Bible states that Jesus is God the Son -- eternally existent
with God the Father -- yet Mormon doctrine says Jesus was a spirit
offspring of the Father; that Lucifer was the second spirit offspring
(THEY WERE BROTHERS?!); followed by billions more - or each of us, for
instance.  We are "brothers" and "sisters" of Jesus Christ.  Jesus is not
the only begotten Son in Mormon Theology:

    "It makes me think of that second person that came forth in the
    heavens when the voice went forth: 'Who will redeem the earth,
    who will go forth and make the sacrifice for the earth and all
    things it contains?'.  The Eldest son said: 'Here am I'; but he
    did not say 'send me.'  But the second one, which was 'Lucifer,
    Son of the Morning,' said, 'Lord, here am I, send me, I will
    redeem every son and daughter of Adam and Eve that lives on the
    earth."
    (BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 13:282)

    "The appointment of Jesus to be Saviour of the world was
    contested by one of the other sons of God.  He was called
    Lucifer, Son of the Morning .... this spirit brother of Jesus
    desperately tried to become the Saviour of Mankind."
    MILTON R. HUNTER (First Council of 70)
    The Gospel Through the Ages, pg 15 [1958]

    "Jesus Christ is also of our species .... I have heard sectarian
    priests undertake to tell the character of the Son of God, and
    they make him half of one species and half of another, and I
    could not avoid thinking at once of a mule."
    (BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 4:217)

    "There is no impropriety .... in speaking of Jesus Christ as the
    elder brother of the rest of human kind."
    (JAMES TALMAGE, ARTICLES OF FAITH, pg 473)

        In Mormonism, Jesus was a created being:

    "Jesus is man's spiritual brother.  We dwelt with Him in the
    spirit world as members of that large society of our eldest
    brother."
    (MILTON R. HUNTER, Gospel Through the Ages, pg 21)

    "The devil is a spirit son of God who was born in the morning of
    pre-existence."
    (BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, "Devil", 1966 edition, pg
    192) "There are three Gods - the Father, Son and Holy Ghost."
    (BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine,"God", pg 317)

    The REAL JESUS, the ONLY Son of God and God the Son, is proclaimed
throughout the BIBLE!  Look up these references and tie-ins of Old and
New testaments declaring Jesus' Divinity and NOT being created:

    LOOK UP             and            COMPARE WITH
    ___________________________________________________
    Psalm    24:10                 I Corinthians  2:8
    Psalm    45:6,7                Hebrews        1:8
    Isaiah   8:13                  I Peter        2:8
    Isaiah   40:3                  Matthew        3:3
    Malachi  3:1                   Matthew        11:10
    Psalm    102:27                Hebrews        13:8
                                   James          1:17
    Psalm    102:25                Colossians     1:16
    Psalm    102:26                Matthew        24:35
                                   2 Peter        3:7,10


        JOHN 1:1-3,14

    "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
    the Word was God.  The same was in the beginning with God.  All
    things were made by Him; and without Him was not anything made
    that was made .... And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among
    us, (and we beheld His glory, the Glory as of the ONLY begotten
    of the Father,) full of grace and truth."

        COLOSSIANS 1:15

    "Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every
    creature" [Here 'firstborn' does not mean first 'spirit-child',
    rather a position of high honor - see verse 18, Hebrews 12:23,
    Revelation 1:5, and Psalm 89:27].  The next verses, 16 and 17,
    tell us, "For in Him were all things created, that are in heaven,
    and that are on the earth .... All things were created by Him,
    and for Him: And He is before all things, and by Him all things
    consist."

        HEBREWS 1:10

    "Thou, Lord (Jesus), in the beginning hast laid the foundation of
    the earth, and the heavens are the work of thine hands."

     In Isaiah 44:24 God tells us that He "stretched forth the heavens
alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself."  Jesus, who IS the
TRUTH and God the Father "have no lies within them" and are INCAPABLE OF
TELLING A LIE.  Jesus is God the Son, eternally One with the Father and
the Holy Spirit, and not to be confused.  God the Son is not God the
Father and God the father is not God the Holy Spirit, but each entity is
a part of the ONE TRUE AND LIVING GOD.

        ISAIAH 9:6

    "For unto us a child is born .... his name shall be called
    Wonderful Counselor, The Mighty God, The everlasting Father, The
    Prince of Peace."

     MICAH 5:2

    "Whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting."

     MATTHEW 28:18

    "And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, 'All power is given
    unto me in heaven and in earth.'"

    PHILIPPIANS 2:6-10

    "Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be
    equal with God: .... was made in the likeness of men .... became
    obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.  Wherefore God
    also hath highly exalted him .... That at the name of Jesus every
    knee should bow ...." Compare to Isaiah 45:22,23 for if Jesus is
    not God, then we worship two (or more) Gods!  The Mormons,
    basically, do not worship Jesus, or pray to Him, only "through"
    Him.)

        COLOSSIANS 2:9

    "For in Him dwelleth the fullness of the Godhead bodily"

    HEBREWS 1:3

    "... The express image of His person ...."

    JOHN 5:23

    "That all men should honor the Son, even as they honor the
    Father.  He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the Father
    which hath sent Him."

    JOHN 20:28

    "And Thomas answered and said unto Him, 'My Lord and my God.'"

     Jesus used the same descriptions of himself; I AM, ALPHA and OMEGA,
FIRST and LAST; as used by God the Father:

    JESUS                     SAYING                    GOD
    __________________________________________________________
    JOHN    8:58              I AM          EXODUS     3:14,15
    REV     22:13,16     ALPHA AND OMEGA    REV        1:8 & 21:6
    REV     1:17                            REVELATION 21:6
            2:8          FIRST AND LAST     ISAIAH     44:6
            22:13                                      48:12

     Jesus is GOD the SON! Eternally God and not after, or created by, or
a spirit child of God!  Our Jesus is NOT the "Jesus" of Mormonism, and we
are empowered, if we have accepted the true Jesus into our hearts, to
give Thanks unto God for selecting us to reveal His True Son to us.
HALLELUJAH and AMEN !!!

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                         LDS statements concerning the Negro
                         -----------------------------------

   It was no less an authority than Brigham Young who uttered these
words, as scripture, about the Negro during the era of slavery:

    "Cain conversed with God every day, and knew all about the plan
    of creating this earth, for his father told him.  But for the
    want of humility, and through jealousy, and an anxiety to possess
    the kingdom, and to have the whole of it under his own control,
    and not allow any body else the right to say one word,what did he
    do?  He killed his brother. The Lord put a mark on him...  When
    all the other children of Adam have had the privilege of
    receiving the Priesthood, and of coming into the kingdom of God,
    and of being redeemed from the four quarters of the earth, and
    have received their resurrection from the dead, then it will be
    time enough to remove the curse from Cain and his posterity.  He
    deprived his brother of the privilege of pursuing the his journey
    through life, and of extending his kingdom by multiplying upon
    the earth; and because he did this, he is the last to share in
    the joys of the kingdom of God."
  
                                 Joseph Fielding Smith
                        quoting Young's Journal of Discourses,
                                   vol.2, pp.142-143
                     in his book "The Way of Perfection", p. 106

   To summarize Smith's quote of Young, the conditions of the curse
being removed from the Negro are as follows:

   1) When all the other children of Adam (Adam was the God of the
Mormons as Young preached at that time) have had the privilege of
receiving the Priesthood.

   2) When all the other children of Adam (Mormons) have been
resurrected.

   The question is put forth then: has every Mormon received the
Priesthood and resurrection?  If so, then the Negro nations should be
receiving the full emphasis of Mormon missionary work.  Since that isn't
the case, then the "revelation" of Young, and affirmed by Fielding Smith,
is false and the manifesto of 1978(?) is also false or in direct
contradiction of the prophets.

   The words of Wilford Woodruff, also a former "prophet, seer, and
revelator" of the LDS had this to day:

    "President Woodruff, in his journal, records the words of
    President Young as follows:

    The Lord said I will not kill Cain, but I will put a mark upon
    him, and that mark will be seen upon the face of every negro upon
    the face of the earth; and it is the decree of God that the mark
    shall remain upon the seed of Cain until the seed of Abel shall
    be redeemed' and Cain shall not receive the priesthood, until the
    time of that redemption.  Any man having one drop of the seed of
    Cain in him cannot receive the priesthood; but the day will come
    when all that race will be redeemed and possess all the blessings
    which we now have."
  
                          "Wilford Woodruff-History of His
                              Life and Labors", p. 351

   Here we have Pres. Woodruff affirming yet again the "revelations" of
the black as uttered by the mouth of Brigham Young.  Here are some other
words from other Mormon leaders/sources that carry on the tradition of
the Mormon/Negro position:

    "Negroes in this life are denied the priesthood; under no
    circumstances can they hold this delegation of authority from the
    Almighty.  The gospel message of salvation is not carried
    affirmatively to them...  Negroes are not equal to other races
    where the receipt of certain spiritual blessings are
    concerned...."

                                      Bruce R. McConkie
                                   "Mormon Doctrine", p.527

    "Think of the Negro, cursed as to the Priesthood...  This negro,
    who, in the pre-existence lived the type of life which justified
    the Lord in sending Him to the earth in the lineage of Cain with
    a black skin, and possible being born in darkest Africa- if that
    negro is willing when he hears the gospel to accept it, he may
    have many of the blessings of the gospel.  In spite of all he did
    in the pre-existent life, the Lord is willing, if the Negro
    accepts the gospel with real, sincere faith, and is really
    converted, to give him the blessings of baptism and the gift of
    the Holy Ghost.  If that Negro is faithful all his days, he can
    and will enter the celestial kingdom.  He will go there as a
    servant, but he will get celestial glory."

                        "Race Problems-As the Affect the Church"
                              Address by Mark E. Petersen at
                               the Convention of Teachers of
                               Religion on the college level,
                          Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah
                                     August 27, 1954


    "Frankly, sincerely, and somewhat abruptly, President Brigham
    Young has told us that the mark of Cain was a 'blackskin.'  For
    the Latter-day Saint no further explanation is required....  The
    question as to what the mark of Cain was, and is, is thus
    answered - a black skin for him and his posterity."

                                "The Church and the Negro",
                                       1967, p. 13-14

    "Cain slew his brother.  Cain might have been killed, and that
    would have put a termination to that line of human beings. This
    was not to be, and the Lord put a mark upon the him, which is the
    flat nose and black skin."

                                  "Journal of Discourses"
                                        Vol.7, p.290
                                Delivered October 16, 1859

     The following, taken from an LDS Sunday School book, puts the LDS
position on the black in it's real context and meaning:

    "We will first inquire into the results of the approbation or
    displeasure of God upon a people, starting with the belief that a
    black skin is a mark of the curse of heaven placed upon some
    portions of mankind.  Some, however, will argue that a blackskin
    is not a curse, nor a white skin a blessing.  In fact some have
    been so FOOLISH AS TO BELIEVE AND SAY that a black skin is a
    blessing, and that the negro is the finest type of a perfect man
    that exists on the earth but to us SUCH TEACHINGS ARE
    FOOLISHNESS.  We understand that when God made man in his own
    image and pronounced him very good, THAT HE MADE HIM WHITE.  We
    have no record of any of God's favored servants BEING OF A BLACK
    RACE.  All his prophets and apostles belonged to the most
    handsome race on the face of the earth -Israel, who still, as
    represented in the scattered tribe of Judah, bear the impress of
    their former beauty.  In this race was born His Son Jesus, who,we
    are told was very lovely, and "in the express image of His
    Father's person," and every angel who ever brought a message of
    God's mercy to man was beautiful to look upon, clad in the purest
    white and with a countenance as bright as the noonday sun."

                                   "Juvenile Instructor"
                                       vol.3, p. 157

   As you see, even God is described as a white man as was Jesus, and
the notion of the negro being a blessed race "foolishness."  And this in
a sunday school book being taught to children.

   There are many more examples, but this gives the gist of the basis
of their doctrine: the mere utterances of men during a time of the US
where the black was regarded as no better than dirt and relegated to
slavery.  Even Petersen's words give a new twist: the Negro, if he
accepts the LDS way and is faithful, will still be slaves ("servants") in
the celestial heaven to the white exalted gods and other whites of said
heaven.  Couple that with the non-fulfillment of Young's "revelation" of
the black redemption and that it hasn't happened, and the 1978 revocation
of the tradition in contradiction to the prophet's "revelations" sets the
LDS in rather a bad light as they can't rightly explain, nor justify,
their continued racism against the black.

   Their own BOM contradicts their theology:

    "Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not partake
    of his goodness?  Behold I say unto you NAY; BUT ALL MEN ARE
    PRIVILEGED THE ONE LIKE UNTO THE OTHER, AND NONE ARE FORBIDDEN."
    (emphasis mine)

   
                                     2 Nephi 26:28

    "...and he doeth nothing save it be plain unto the children of
    men; and he inviteth ALL to come unto him and partake of his
    goodness; AND HE DENIETH NONE THAT COME UNTO HIM, BLACK AND
    WHITE, bond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the
    heathen; AND ALL ARE ALIKE UNTO GOD, BOTH JEW AND GENTILE."
    (emphasis mine)

                                        2 Nephi 26:33

   Even former President Joseph Fielding Smith admitted there was
no "scriptural basis" for the Negro doctrine:

    "...We know of no such statement in any revelation in the
    'Doctrine and Covenants', the 'Book of Mormon' or the Bible."

                                    "The Improvement Era"
                                       Vol. 27, p. 565

   Even David O. McKay, another former president, tried to evade the
issue of scripturality by reasoning it to their "pre-existence" doctrine:

  
    "...however, I believe...that the real reason dates back to our
    pre-existent life." 

                                "Mormonism and the Negro"
                                     Part Two, p. 19
  
     The reader must agree with Smith that there is no scriptural basis,
LDS or otherwise, for their doctrine on the Negro.

   It seems that the LDS will have a lot to account for in disobeying
God's word (as the BOM is purported to be) in their doctrine on the
black.  As the above BOM verses state, no blessing of God is to be denied
to anyone who accepts God, that means the Negro is entitled to the Mormon
Priesthood just as much as the white Mormon enjoys it.  Therefore, the
LDS doctrine on the Negro is no more than a doctrine of prejudiced men,
and not of God.

   The Bible is also clear as to the blessings of God not knowing race,
creed, skin color, social status, etc.:

    "For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. 
    For as many of you as have been baptized Christ have put on
    Christ.  There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond
    nor free, there is neither male nor female; FOR YE ARE ALL ONE IN
    CHRIST JESUS.  And if ye be Christs, then ye are Abraham's seed,
    and heirs according to the promise." (emphasis mine)

                                        Galatians 3:26-29

     Here, Paul is describing the lack of any barrier based on sex,
status, race, etc., to those who are part of Christ's church and who have
Christ as Lord.

    "Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man
    with his deeds, and have put on the new man, which is renewed in
    knowledge after the image of him that created him; where there is
    neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision,
    Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free, BUT CHRIST IS ALL, AND IN
    ALL." (emphasis mine)

                                      Colossians 3:9-11

   The same declaration as in Galatians.  There are no divisions of
class, etc., in the body of christian believers.  All are equal in God's
sight and entitled to the same blessings.

   There are other scriptures to affirm this point.  See Colossians
1:20-23, 27-28, 2:9-10, and the capping scripture, Acts 10:9-33 where God
reveals that there is nothing unclean that God has cleansed (meaning
Gentiles to the Jew) and all are eligible to receive God's blessings.

   In summary: the LDS doctrine on the Negro is a farce, it has no
scriptural basis, and it is perpetuated to this day because of prejudice
and the desire of exclusiveness in the organization and to keeping the
black in the position of slave.  My interpretation is not of any part of
this.  The words are self evident, and the Greek of the New Testament is
self-explanatory.  One need only consult a Greek lexicon of the Bible and
use it with an interlinear to discover the true meanings of the Greek
texts.

                                                 Ken Simmons
For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                       SALVATION THROUGH CHRIST

                                 vs:

                        THE EXALTATION OF MAN

   God's word, the BIBLE, which clearly states that our salvation is
through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, alone through one faith and His
Grace --- not as a result of fabricating our own righteousness by "good
works" by attempting to become "perfect" as a result of laws and
ordinances of any organization.

   "And this is the record, that God hath given us eternal life, and
this life is in His son.  He that hath the Son hath life; and he that
hath not the Son hath not life.  These things have I written unto you
that believe on the name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have
eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God" (I
John 5:11-13).

   God spells it out - you either have life through the Son or you
reject Him.  It is either Heaven or the Lake of Fire; no "grey areas"; no
half-way locations.  You either accept the Son or you reject Him.

   Mormonism claims to accept Jesus ---- "We have His name on our
church" - The Jesus of Mormonism is a different Jesus - not any
resemblance to the REAL Jesus.  Further, by rejecting the total
sufficiency of the New Covenant of the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross
for their personal sins - and instead electing to attempt the old
covenant of works, laws, temples, etc ----- they nullify the offer of
eternal life as a gift by God's Love and immeasurable Grace:

    "I do not frustrate the Grace of God: for if righteousness come
    by the law, then Christ is dead in vain." (Galatians 2:21)

   As a result, the Mormon believing in the Mormon Jesus, and not the
real Jesus of the BIBLE; and following a life only of works, even with
utmost sincerity, without the saving faith in the one who died for them,
personally, is LOST.  We don't say that - GOD says that - in HIS Word -
The BIBLE

                           THREE KINGDOMS?

   Let's go further ---- Mormonism claims three "heavens."  They take I
CORINTHIANS 15:37-49 totally out of context to arrive at this false
teaching.  Where Paul is declaring that an individual's resurrected body
is different in Glory from his earthly body - as the sun differs from the
moon, from the stars - Mormonism has declared three kingdoms of Heaven:

                          TELESTIAL KINGDOM

   Where all the wicked go, whether they've rejected God and Jesus all
their life or not - Murderers, etc !

                         TERRESITAL KINGDOM

   Where good and honorable persons go - they only failed to accept the
"gospel" of Mormonism.

                          CELESTIAL KINGDOM

   A) LOWER DEGREE

   Good Mormons, but failed to marry in the Temple and having "other"
imperfections.  These will be allowed to be angels.

   B) MIDDLE DEGREE

   Mormons who failed to accept the complete "gospel" but were married
in the Temple, sealed to many wives, and are in the process of being
exalted through baptism of the dead, etc.

   C) HIGHEST DEGREE - EXALTATION

   "Perfect" Mormons.  They will be gods themselves just like God the
Father.  Will have eternal, multiple, marriages for the purpose of
sexually procreating billions of spirit children to populate another
world that they will reign over as that world's god.

                         MORMON TERMINOLOGY

   Let's be "clear" on some important terms - even though you will find
Mormon writers interchanging them, in a strict sense they are:

   SALVATION

   Resurrection only; immortality, or simply life after death.  This is
what Christ's death on the cross "achieved."  This is what all mankind
has by the Grace of God as a free gift.  But "salvation" for what?  This
is just the bottom of the ladder.

    "Those who gain only this general or unconditional salvation will
    still be judged according to their works and receive places in a
    Terrestial or Telestial kingdom.  They will, therefore, be
    damned; their eternal progression will be cut short; they will
    not fill the full measure of their creation, but in eternity will
    be ministering servants to more worthy persons."
    Bruce R. McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, "Salvation",pg 669,670 (1966
    Edition)

   So, you see, salvation as a gift through Christ is nothing special
to a Mormon.  When they say, "Jesus is our Savior", this is what they
give Him "credit" for!  Now, let's find out what the goal of Mormonism
is. Who are these "more worthy persons"? 

   EXALTATION

   Eternal Life in the Highest Degree of the Celestial Kingdom.  This
is what Mormonism teaches day in and day out.  McConkie continues:

    "Conditional or individual salvation, that which comes by grace
    coupled with gospel obedience, consist in receiving an
    inheritance in the Celestial Kingdom of God.  This kind of
    salvation follows faith, repentance, baptism, receipt of the Holy
    Ghost, and continued righteousness to the end of one's mortal
    life. (D & C 20:29 & 2 Nephi 9:23-24).  All others are damned ---
    Even those in the celestial kingdom however, who do not go on to
    exaltation, will have immortality only and not eternal life ---
    they will be 'ministering servants, to minister for and to those
    who are worthy of a far more, and an exceeding and an eternal
    weight of glory.'  They will live 'separately and singly' in an
    unmarried state 'without exaltation, in their saved condition, to
    all eternity' (D & C 132:16,17).  Salvation in its true and full
    meaning is synonymous with exaltation or eternal life and consist
    in gaining an inheritance in the highest of the three heavens
    within the Celestial Kingdom --- It is the salvation which saints
    seek --- This full salvation is obtained in and through the
    continuation of the family unit in eternity, and those who obtain
    it are gods --- If it had not been for Joseph Smith and the
    restoration, there would be no salvation.  There is no salvation
    outside The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints."

    "Then shall they be gods, because they have no end  -  Then shall
    they be gods, because they have all power ---" (D & C 132:20)

    "Here then is eternal life - to know the only wise and true God;
    and you have got to learn how to be gods yourselves, and to be
    kings and priest to God, the same as all gods have done before
    you --- and to sit in glory, as do those who sit in everlasting
    power --- What is it?  To inherit the same power, the same glory
    and the same exaltation, until you arrive at the station of a god
    ---"
    Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pg 345-347;
    Bruce R. McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, "Godhood", 1966 Edition, pg
    321 History of the Church, Volume 6, page 306

    "They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things -
    they are they who are priest and kings, who have received of His
    fullness, and his glory -- they are gods --"
    Doctrine & Covenants, 76:55-58

    "As man is, God once was; as God is, man may become."
    Lorenzo Snow, Millennial Star, Vol 54, pg 404

    "God and man are of the same race, differing only in degrees of
    advancement."
    John A. Widtsoe,Rational Theology, page 61

    "Mormonism does not tend to debase God to the level of man, but
    to exalt man to the perfection of God."
    Charles W. Penrose,Millennial Star,Vol 23, pg 181

   The above quotes appear in Milton R. Hunter's, The Gospel Through
The Ages (1958, pages 105-107) under the chapter heading "Men may become
gods".  Hunter surprisingly supports Mormonism's view of the Godhead of
man by noting (on pg 117):

    "Even the doctrine of a knowledge of God as the avenue to Godhood
    made its way outward from the Divine Fountain of Truth into the
    heathenistic religions of the Mediterranean world.  The teaching
    of the HERMETIC pagan cult sound quite familiar to those who are
    acquainted with the doctrine taught by Jesus, by John the
    Beloved, by Paul, and by Joseph Smith, the American Prophet".

   Sorry, but only the teachings of the latter sound familiar.  Nowhere
in the BIBLE do we find GOD saying man can reach godhood.  Yes, we do
find such a teaching in the BIBLE --- yet it is Satan who is doing the
talking !!

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon


                   The Jesus of Christianity
                               Vs
                     The Jesus of Mormonism

   The Jesus WE KNOW contrasted to the "Jesus" of Mormonism. The one
true Jesus of the BIBLE, of all eternity God the Son, who died that we
may have eternal life; who paid the price of all sins; who has entered
our lives and is walking with us in a personal relationship day by day
-- is not known in Mormonism. The Jesus of Mormonism is an entirely
different "Jesus". Let's examine what the leaders and prophets - the
foundation of the Latter Day Saints Church - have said:

   "When the time came that His First-Born, the Saviour, should come
into the world and take a tabernacle, the Father Himself came and
favored the Spirit with a tabernacle instead of letting any other MAN
do it. ....  The Saviour was begotten by the Father of His spirit, by
the same being who is the Father of our spirits, and that is all the
organic difference between Jesus Christ and you and me."  BRIGHAM
YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 4:218

   "The fleshly body of Jesus required a Mother as well as a Father.
Therefore, the Father and Mother of Jesus, according to the flesh,
must have been associated together in the capacity of Husband and
Wife; hence the Virgin Mary must have been, for the time being, the
lawful wife of God the Father." ORSON PRATT, The Seer, pg 158

   "Christ was begotten by an immortal Father in the same way that
mortal men are begotten by mortal fathers --- And Christ was born into
the world as the Literal Son of this Holy Being; He was born in the
same personal, real, and literal sense that any mortal son is born of
a mortal father. There is nothing figurative about his paternity; He
was begotten, conceived and born in the normal and natural course of
events, for He is the Son of God, and that designation means what it
says." BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, pg 547,742

   Brigham Young, to be consistent with his "Adam-God" doctrine,
believed Adam was the literal father of Jesus Christ:

"When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, the Father had
begotten him in his own likeness. He was not begotten by the Holy
Ghost. And who is the Father? He is the first of the human family ...
Jesus, our elder brother, was begotten in the flesh by the same
character that was in the Garden of Eden, and who is our Father in
Heaven." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 1:50,51

   As is evident in these statements, there is no Virgin Birth in
Mormonism. On the other hand, the Bible clearly shows us:

Matthew  1:18   Mary with child of the Holy Spirit
         1:20   That which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit
         1:23   Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son
Luke     1:35   The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of
                the Most High will overshadow you

   Further, the "Jesus" of Mormonism was married in polygamy and had
children. This had to be so to be consistent with the doctrines of
Joseph Smith, Junior. As Joseph reports as a "revelation" given him by
God on July 12,1843: "I am the Lord thy God .. obey the instructions I
am about to give unto you .. if ye abide not that covenant, then ye
are damned; for no one can reject this covenant and be permitted to
enter my Glory .. verily I say unto you, if  man marry a wife by my
word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant .. they
shall be gods .. And again, as pertaining to the law of the priesthood
if any man espouses a virgin, and desire to espouse another, and the
first give her consent, and if he espouse the second, and they are
virgins, and have vowed to no other man, then he is justified .. and
if he have ten virgins given unto him by the law, he cannot commit
adultery, for they belong to him." JOSEPH SMITH, Doctrine & Covenants,
132:2,3,4,19,20,61,62

   "It will be borne in mind that once on a time, there was a marriage
in Cana of Galilee, and on a careful reading of that transaction, it
will be discovered that no less a person than Jesus Christ was married
on that occasion." ORSON HYDE, Journal of Discourses, 13:259

"How was it with Mary and Martha, and other women that followed
Him? In old times, and it is common to this day, the women, even
Sarah, called their husbands 'LORD' .. Jesus was the bridegroom at the
marriage of Cana of Galilee .. We say it was Jesus Christ who was
married, to be brought into relation whereby he could see his seed,
before He was crucified .. I shall say here, that before the Saviour
died, he looked upon His own natural children, as we look upon ours."
ORSON HYDE, Journal of Discourses, 2:81,82

   The Bible states that Jesus is God the Son -- eternally existent
with God the Father -- yet Mormon doctrine says Jesus was a spirit
offspring of the Father; that Lucifer was the second spirit offspring
(THEY WERE BROTHERS?!); followed by billions more - or each of us, for
instance. We are "brothers" and "sisters" of Jesus Christ. Jesus is
not the only begotten Son in Mormon Theology: "It makes me think of
that second person that came forth in the heavens when the voice went
forth: 'Who will redeem the earth, who will go forth and make the
sacrifice for the earth and all things it contains ?'. The Eldest son
said: 'Here am I'; but he did not say 'send me'. But the second one,
which was 'Lucifer, Son of the Morning', said, 'Lord, here am I, send
me, I will redeem every son and daughter of Adam and Eve that lives on
the earth." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 13:282

"The appointment of Jesus to be Saviour of the world was contested
by one of the other sons of God. He was called Lucifer, Son of the
Morning .... this spirit brother of Jesus desperately tried to become
the Saviour of Mankind. MILTON R. HUNTER (First Council of 70) The
Gospel Through the Ages, pg 15 [1958]

 "Jesus Christ is also of our species .. I have heard sectarian
priest undertake to tell the character of the Son of God, and they
make him half of one species and half of another, and I could not
avoid thinking at once of a mule." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of
Discourses, 4:217

"There is no impropriety ... in speaking of Jesus Christ as the
elder brother of the rest of human kind." JAMES TALMAGE, ARTICLES OF
FAITH, pg 473

   In Mormonism, Jesus was a created being: "Jesus is man's spiritual
brother. We dwelt with Him in the spirit world as members of that
large society of our eldest brother." MILTON R. HUNTER, Gospel Through
the Ages, pg 21

"The devil is a spirit son of God who was born in the morning of
pre-existence." BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, "Devil", 1966
edition, pg 192

"There are three Gods - the Father, Son and Holy Ghost." BRUCE R.
McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine,"God", pg 317

   The REAL JESUS, the ONLY Son of God and God the Son, is proclaimed
throughout the BIBLE! Look up these references and tie-ins of Old and
New testaments declaring Jesus' Divinity and NOT being created:

 LOOK UP:    and     COMPARE WITH

 Psalm 24:10        I Corinthians 2:8
 Psalm 45:6,7       Hebrews 1:8
 Isaiah 8:13        I Peter 2:8
 Isaiah 40:3        Matthew 3:3
 Malachi 3:1        Matthew 11:10
 Psalm 102:27       Hebrews 13:8
                  James 1:17
 Psalm 102:25       Colossians 1:16
 Psalm 102:26       Matthew 24:35
                  2 Peter 3:7,10

   JOHN 1:1-3,14  "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was
with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with
God. All things were made by Him; and without Him was not anything
made that was made ... And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among
us, (and we beheld His glory, the Glory as of the ONLY begotten of the
Father,) full of grace and truth."

COLOSSIANS 1:15  "Who is the image of the invisible God, the
firstborn of every creature" [Here 'firstborn' does not mean first
'spirit-child', rather a position of high honor - see verse 18,
Hebrews 12:23, revelation 1:5, and Psalm 89:27]. The next verses, 16
and 17, tell us, "For in Him were all things created, that are in
heaven, and that are on the earth ... All things were created by Him,
and for Him: And He is before all things, and by Him all things
consist."

HEBREWS 1:10  "Thou, Lord (Jesus), in the beginning hast laid the
foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of thine hands."

In Isaiah 44:24 God tells us that He "stretched forth the heavens
alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself." Jesus, who IS the
TRUTH and God the Father "have no lies within them" and are INCAPABLE
OF TELLING A LIE. Jesus is God the Son, eternally One with the Father
and the Holy Spirit, and not be confused. God the Son is not God the
Father and God the father is not God the Holy Spirit, but each entity
is a part of the ONE TRUE AND LIVING GOD.

ISAIAH 9:6  "For unto us a child is born ... his name shall be
called Wonderful Counselor, The Mighty God, The everlasting Father,
The Prince of Peace."

MICAH 5:2  "Whose goings forth have been from of old, from
everlasting."

MATTHEW 28:18  "And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, 'All
power is given unto me in heaven and in earth."

PHILIPPIANS 2:6-10  "Who, being in the form of God, though it not
robbery to be equal with God: ... was made in the likeness of men ...
became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God
also hath highly exaulted him ... That at the name of Jesus every knee
should bow ....".

Compare to Isaiah 45:22,23 for if Jesus is not God, then we worship
two (or more) Gods! The Mormons, basically, do not worship Jesus, or
pray to Him, only "through" Him.)

COLOSSIANS 2:9   "For in Him dwelleth the fullness of the Godhead
bodily"

HEBREWS 1:3   "... The express image of His person ...."

JOHN 5:23  "That all men should honor the Son, even as they honor
the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the Father which
hath sent Him."

JOHN 20:28  "And Thomas answered and said unto Him, 'My Lord and my
God'"

   Jesus used the same descriptions of himself; I AM, ALPHA and OMEGA,
FIRST and LAST; as used by God the Father:

 COMPARE: ...

 JOHN 8:58        to  EXODUS 3:14,15
 REV 22:13,16     To  REV 1:8 & 21:6
 REV 1:17         to  REVELATION 21:6
 REV 2:8 & 22:13  to  ISAIAH 44:6 & 48:12

   Jesus is GOD the SON! Eternally God and not after, or created by,
or a spirit child of God! Our Jesus is NOT the "Jesus" of Mormonism,
and we are empowered, if we have accepted the true Jesus into our
hearts, to give Thanks unto God for selecting us to reveal His True
Son to us. HALLELUJAH and AMEN!!!

Computers For Christ - San Jose

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                    MORMONISM'S "SALVATION BY WORKS" 
                                   or 
                   SALVATION BY GRACE THROUGH CHRIST? 

   The entire BIBLE points in all direction to the cross.  Upon it
God's only begotten Son died that we might have eternal from God.  Only
through Christ can this separation be bridged.

   On the other hand, MORMONISM points in all directions to the "Law of
Eternal Progression."  We have seen that Mormon doctrine states that God
was once a man.  He progressed to become God.  The same law states that
man may become God!  Let's go to the authorities of the church and hear
what they have said, first on the subject of man's pre-existence as a
spirit in a "spirit world" prior to taking a body here on earth:

    "Pre-existence is the term commonly used to describe the
    pre-mortal existence of the spirit children of God the Father ...
    All men and women are in the similitude of the universal Father
    and Mother, and we are literally the sons and daughters of Deity;
    as spirits they were the offspring of celestial parentage ...
    Unless God the father was a personal Being, He could not have
    begotten spirits in His image, and if there had been no
    self-existent spirit element, there would have been no substance
    from which those spirit bodies could have been organized.  The
    basis of the Mormon law of progression in Mormonism is that
    "intelligences" are eternal.  On the other hand, God is not!  He
    started as a spirit child in another 'spirit world' long ago;
    entered a body on another earth as a man; apparently was able to
    follow the law of progression perfectly; after death He became
    God in the 'celestial kingdom' of that other earth; brought (or
    was given) many wives; through sexual union in our spirit world
    had billions of spirit children : The first was Jesus, the second
    Lucifer, the third and on and on were to enter the earth as you
    and me. No organic difference in the parentage between us and
    Jesus and Lucifer! We all have the same literal "Heavenly
    Father."  Note how those in Mormonism generally refer to Him as
    "Heavenly Father" -- they mean just that - LITERALLY!!  Just
    remember that they could say also; "Heavenly GRANDFATHER",
    "Heavenly Great-Grandfather", and so on ...!
    DID WE PRE-EXIST?  BRUCE R. McCONKIE (Apostle); MORMON DOCTRINE,
    page 589

    "In the first stage, man was an eternally existent being termed
    an intelligence ... The next realm where man dwelt was the spirit
    world.  According to Mormon concept eternally existing
    intelligences were clothed with spirit bodies in the mansion of
    their eternal Father... numerous sons and daughters were begotten
    and born of heavenly parents into that eternal family in the
    spirit world ... There ... they were reared to maturity, becoming
    grown spirit men and women prior to coming upon this earth ...
    Following his stay in the spirit world, man comes to earth in a
    probationary state ... receives a physical body and undergoes the
    experiences of mortality .. Eventually; however, mortal death
    comes upon all. The eternal spirit goes to the spirit world to
    wait resurrection and judgement ... there they shall be assigned
    to the glory that they have merited ... Some will receive
    telestial glory; others terrestrial, while those who are recorded
    in the 'Lamb's Book of Life' will enter celestial glory. There
    some of them will become angels and others priest and kings, or,
    in other words, Gods."
    MILTON R. HUNTER (1st Council of 70);GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES;
    pages 127-129 (1958)

   On page 12, Hunter states a basic "truth" of  Mormonism, that God is
subordinate to the law of eternal progression.:

    "Our Eternal Father has attained His position of exaltation and
    Godhood by obedience to the great law of progression.  The
    intelligent part of man was never created but always existed.
    That is true of each of us as well as it is of God, yet we are
    born sons and daughters of God in the spirit and are destined to
    exist forever.  Those who become like God will also be from
    eternity to eternity."
    JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH; DOCTRINES OF SALVATION; Vol 1, pg 12

   The BIBLE states explicitly that there are no intelligences
co-eternal or co-existent with God.  Anything that exists, other than
God, is a "thing."  COLOSSIANS 1:16-17 and JOHN 1:1-3 state that ONLY 
Jesus is co-eternal with God as the "WORD WAS GOD" (John 1:1).  He is
before all "things" and created all "things."  His creation did not
pre-exist Him!

   God knows the beginning and end of all things before they exist.
There are several scriptures stating HE "knew" us before we were born.
They do not imply we existed before we were born.

    "The burden of the word of the Lord of Israel, saith the Lord,
    which stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundation of
    the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within him." (Zechariah
    12:1)

   Note that the spirit is formed by God within man -- not 15 deals
with the body of man and the resurrection.  Mormons will use verses 40
and 41 to substantiate their belief in three heavens, where it is clear
that Paul is talking about degrees of glory in heavenly bodies (stars,
moon and sun) as a description of the body before and after the
resurrection (Vs 42).  Verses 43-49 refutes any "pre-existence" of man in
that Adam and all following (all of us - you and I) are from the earth -
first with a natural state -- not spiritual -- followed by a spiritual
state (vs 46).  Jesus, alone, pre- existed and came from heaven to earth.
(See  Philippians 2:6-10)

                     SALVATION BY GRACE VERSUS WORKS

   The BIBLE states over and over that we do not merit salvation
(eternal life in God's presence) by our own goodness and system of good
works from or for any organization.  You need only to study the Old
Testament and see the hopelessness of a system whereby man was to live
within God's laws with the system of prophets - temples - priests and
ordinances.  The purpose of Jesus coming to earth to die for us was to
make provision for our own inability to bridge this separation of man
from God and brought a new covenant.  If you choose Mormonism as your
plan of salvation, you have regressed to the old covenant of the prophet,
temple and ordinance which produce only "dead works" in an attempt to
obtain righteousness on your own. If you trust the LDS church and its
prophets; here is what is said:

    "Thus all men who ascend to the glorious status of Godhood can do
    so only by one method - by obedience to all the principals and
    ordinances of the Gospel of Jesus Christ (another way of saying
    "Mormonism")... Men are saved no faster than they gain knowledge. 
    The Prophet Joseph described the process of going toward Godhood
    as follows: When you climb a ladder, you must begin at the
    bottom, and ascend step by step, until you arrive at the top; and
    so it is with the principles of the Gospel - you must begin with
    the first, and go on until you learn all of the principles of
    exaltation.  But it will be a great while after you have passed
    through the veil before you will have learned them"
    MILTON R. HUNTER;THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES;pg 115
    JOSEPH F. SMITH;TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, pg 348

    "The sectarian dogma of justification by faith alone has
    exercised an influence for evil"
    JAMES E. TALMAGE;ARTICLES OF FAITH;pg 480

    "For we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we
    can do"
    II NEPHI 25:23 (BOOK OF MORMON)

    "Christians speak often of the blood of Christ and its cleansing
    power. Much that is believed and taught on this subject, however,
    is utter nonsense and so palpably false that to believe it is to
    lose one's salvation.  Many go so far, for instance, as to
    pretend, at least, to believe that if we confess Christ with our
    lips and avow that we accept Him as our personal Savior, we are
    thereby saved ... And no man can pick the fruit of eternal life
    off the branches, as these are tied to the vine, without
    accepting both Christ and His prophets ... If it had not been for
    Joseph Smith, the Prophet, the perfect knowledge of Christ would
    not be had in the world in this day.  If it had not been for him
    and his mission there would be no legal administrators now on
    earth to administer in the ordinances of salvation."
    WHAT THE MORMONS THINK OF CHRIST;Official LDS Church Tract;pg
    32,46,47

    "The second birth begins when men are legally baptized in water
    by a legal administrator ... Those who receive the Gospel (Mormon
    Doctrine) and join the church of Jesus Christ of Latter day
    Saints have power given them to become sons of God"  (Compare to
    John 1:12.
    BRUCE R. McCONKIE;MORMON DOCTRINE;pgs 84 & 745
     (Compare to John 1:12.  "But as many as received Him, to
them gave He power to become sons of God..")

    "Those things which men are directed to do to attain peace in
    this life and gain eternal life in the world to come are
    collectively called the commandments".
    BRUCE R. McCONKIE;MORMON DOCTRINE;pg 149

    "Man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge -- (See I
    Corinthians 1:17,20-23,2:1-5) ---- To gain salvation after
    baptism it is necessary to keep the commandments of God and
    endure to the end.... The most important things that any member
    of the church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints ever does in
    this world are: 1. To marry the right person, in the right place,
    by the right authority (Mormon Temple marriage); and 2. to keep
    the covenant made in connection with this holy and perfect order
    of matrimony - thus assuring the obedient persons of an
    inheritance of exaltation in the celestial kingdom."
    BRUCE R. McCONKIE;MORMON DOCTRINE;preface to 1966 Edition;pg 118
     We are praying that this comparative report will show you
the TRUTH of the BIBLE and the False Gospel and False Jesus being
expounded by the Mormon Church.

    "There is only one way to become sanctified and perfected, and
    thus prepared to live with God. That is by obedience to His laws. 
    There is no other way ... When will we learn to obey him with all
    our heart, mind and strength?
    CHURCH NEWS-EDITORIAL;November 8,1975; page 16
     (Compare with Luke 10:27.  "Thou shalt love the Love the
Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with
all thy strength, and with all thy mind....")

    "If men and women obey all the other laws of the gospel except
    that of celestial marriage (Mormon Temple Marriage), They are
    appointed angels ...."
    MILTON R. HUNTER, GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES;pgs 118-120

    "Once we have been resurrected, it will be our own efforts, and
    not Christ's sacrifice, that will be the deciding factor ... A
    man can be saved only so fast as he gains knowledge of the laws
    of God."  Prophets ... temples ... Obedience to the Law ...
    Aaronic Priest .. Legalisms ... Dependent on our own efforts and
    good works ...
    BENNET; WHY I AM A MORMON;pg 170

   Sound familiar?  Old Testament in a new wrapping?  Wrapped in
Christian terminology?  Mormonism calls the unsuspecting back under what
amounts to the old covenant.  If righteousness could be obtained, earned
or gained by our own efforts to be perfect under the law, there would
have been no need for a "NEW" covenant.  If all Christ's death meant was
to conquer death - to pay for Adam's sin as Mormonism teaches - why are
the following among the great number of God's words declaring the TRUTH
of the NEW COVENANT of salvation through Christ, by faith, not works of
the law.  Look up these scriptures and review their full context as
revelations from God.

                      THE LAW AND WORKS DO NOT SAVE

   What must we do to be doing the works of God?  This is the work of
God that you believe in Him whom He sent. (John 6:28,29,39,40)

   No one is justified by the works of the law.  Now righteousness of
God is manifested apart from the Law. (Romans 3:21-22)

   If it is adherents of the Law that are to be heirs, then faith is
NULL and the promise void. (Romans 4:13-16)

   Died to the Law through the body of Christ.  Discharged from the
law, dead to that which held us captive, so that we serve not under the
old written code but in new life of the Spirit. (Romans 7:4-6)

   God has done what the law could not do! (Romans 8:1-4)

   Israel who pursued righteousness based on the law did not
succeed.  WHY?  They did not pursue it through faith, but as if it were
based on works. (Romans 9:30-32)

   A zeal for God - but not enlightened.  Seeking to establish their
own righteousness. (Romans 10:1-4)

   Christ is the end of the law. Romans 14:1-23 and Colossians 3:8-23
are clear refutations of the point made by Joseph Smith in "Words of
Wisdom" to not drink and eat certain things is nothing more than MAN'S
regulation and NOT from God.  Read and see what God said through the
Apostle Paul!

   Man is not justified by works of the law but is through faith!
(Galatians 2:16)

   Died to the law, that I might live to God.  I do not nullify the
Grace of God; for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ is
dead in vain. (Galatians 2:19-21)

   As many as are under the works of the law are under the curse!
(Galatians 3:10)

   Before faith came, we were under the law - our schoolmaster
(Custodian) until Christ came.  Now that faith is come, we are no longer
under a schoolmaster. (Galatians 3:23-28)

   If led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. (Galatians 5:18)

   Who saved us, not according to our works, but according to His own
purpose and grace. (II Timothy 1:8-10)

   He saved us, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but
according to His mercy. Being justified by grace. (Titus 3:3-9)  NOTE:
Titus 3:9 and 1st Timothy 1:4 clearly spell out what God says about the
Mormon obsession with genealogies for the dead works of "baptism for the
dead."

                            HOW IS MAN SAVED?

     If salvation is not by works of our own under the law and
ordinances, HOW IS MAN SAVED?  Just a few of the scriptures God has given
us are:

   YOU MUST BE BORN AGAIN! (John 3:1-18)

   In context Jesus, Himself, explains that, not only do we have a
natural birth (Flesh) but a spiritual birth!  "Whosoever believeth in Him
shall not perish but have everlasting life (ETERNAL)!"  Gnosticism was a
movement that vigorously contended with Orthodox Christianity for
supremacy.  Writings by the early Church Fathers show how widespread and
influential Gnosticism justifies him who has faith in Jesus, without the
deeds of the law.

   Christ died for us, sinners, who are now justified by His blood.  We
are reconciled through Him. (Romans 5:1-11)

   The free gift of righteousness by the grace of God. (Romans 5:15-17)

   Confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart God
raised Him from the dead, you will be saved. (Romans 10:9-17)

   We are justified by faith.  Our old nature is crucified with Christ;
Christ now lives in us; we live by faith --- not the law! (Galatians
2:16-21)

   "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of
yourselves; it is the gift of God: Not of works, lest any man should
boast.  For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good
works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them"
(Ephesians 2:8-10).  Works have nothing to do with our justifying eternal
life.  The Mormon will be quick to point out James 2:17 - "Even so faith,
if it hath not works, is dead, being alone."  AMEN!  That is not denying
salvation by faith.  What it is saying is this: "You say you are saved?
Saving faith will naturally flow into a life that will show evidence of
it.  Your 'works' will testify of your faith.  If none, there is reason
to question whether there really was a saving faith to start with."

   To quote Ed Decker in his tract "To Moroni with Love"; You do not
bark to become a dog nor "baa" to become a sheep.  You bark because you
are a dog or "baa" because you are a sheep!  Christians, when born-again
and indwelt by the Holy Spirit, have a never ending desire to follow the
Lord Jesus in their daily life behavior.  "Works" is not an appropriate
name as it suggest payment after the work has been done.  Christ made the
payment IN FULL for our sins by His blood for us; if only we REPENT of
our sins and ACCEPT Him by faith.  It is available only through God's
grace for an eternal life.

   Blood of Jesus cleanseth us from all sin. (I John 1:7)

   Jesus was the sacrifice, once, to perfect forever those who are
sanctified. (Hebrews 9:23-28, 10:10-18)

   We are reconciled by His blood. (Romans 5:6-11)

   Our iniquity was laid on Jesus; to die for us; that we might be made
the righteousness of God in Him. (Isaiah 53:6-11 and I Corinthians 5:17-
21)

                           I PETER 2:24

   "Who his own self bare our sins in His own body on the tree, that
we, being dead to sins should live unto righteousness: By whose stripes
ye are healed" (I Peter 2:24).  You will never (Well, We won't say never
because God may have His plan for their salvation that We are not aware
of at this moment) see a cross on a Mormon structure.  They will say call
it a "graven image"; yet "Moroni" stands on top of their temples.  Moroni
didn't die for them.  Joseph Smith, Jr. didn't die for them.  The church
didn't die for them.  JESUS DIED FOR THEM, if they would only cling to
His cross and reach out to claim His blood for their sins.  They're told
they can earn their own righteousness based on the law of the church
which is based on "prophets, seers and revelators" proven -TIME AND
AGAIN- to be false.  Wouldn't you rather lay your eternal life in the
hands of the ETERNAL GOD; the SON who, personally, died for you - than,
say, a "prophet" in Salt Lake City?

Our prayer is that this comparison of the Bible vs: the 
LDS Mormon church will show you the LIGHT of CHRIST. 
Computers For Christ - San Jose, CA

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

   "MORMON MAFIA" CITED IN FBI DISCRIMINATION CASE.


   Three hundred-eleven Hispanic FBI agents won a class action suit 
against the agency on September 30.  A central argument in the suit was 
that their careers were stymied by the religious bias against non- 
Mormons of ranking FBI officials who are MORMON (LDS).

   Charges of a "Mormon Mafia" in the FBI's Los Angeles office have 
been circulation for years, but no one had taken the FBI to court on 
the matter until Matt Perez, an agent working out of El Paso, initiated 
the suit.

   In ruling in favor of the plaintiffs, Judge Lucius Bunton of the 
U.S.  District Court, Western District of Texas, El Paso Division, 
agreed that the Hispanic agents' careers were affected by 
discrimination in hiring practices and promotions.  
Bunton said there was insufficient evidence for him to rule the agency 
had discriminated against the plaintiffs in issuing assignments.

   The plaintiffs sued for $5 million in damages and retroactive 
promotions and back pay.  At press time the judge had not yet made a 
decision on the damages award.

   The FBI, admitting the discrimination practices and pledging to end 
them with the recent appointment of a new director, had no plans to 
appeal the ruling.

   Just after the case was filed, Richard T.  Bretzing, 49, head of the 
Los Angeles division of the FBI since 1982, retired to become the 
Managing Director of the LDS Church's security department, according to 
the LDS Church News.  Bretzing retired after 27 year's service (three 
years short of the 30-year government retirement plan).

"Christian Research Journal"
Volume 11 Number 2 Fall 1988  

Christian Research Institute
P.O.  Box 500, San Juan Capistrano, CA 92693-0500

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

   "CORRECTLY TRANSLATED" 

   When we visited Temple Square in Salt Lake City, Utah, we were told 
several things concerning the book of Mormon.  We were told by our 
Mormon tour guides...  

   'That there was nothing written in the Book of Mormon that would 
contradict with the Holy Bible.  We were told that the two books were 
in total agreement with each other.  In fact, that the two books 
compliment each other.' 

   We also saw engraved on fine stone the 'Articles of Faith' 
that the Mormons believe.  Article of Faith, number 8 reads, 

   'We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is 
translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the 
Word of God.' 

   Upon returning home we began to examine the Book of Mormon with 
the Holy Bible to see if these things were true.  Were there no 
contradictions?  Is the Mormon doctrine 'correctly translating' 
the Word of God?  The answer to these two fundamental questions is 
examined below.  

   THE FALL OF MAN 

   What we found is that the Book of Mormon and the Holy Bible 
contradict each other starting in chapter 1 of Genesis.  We hadn't even 
gotten started and already we found a sinful contradiction in 
the Book of Mormon.  For we read in the Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi 2:18 
and 22-25, 

   "Wherefore, he said unto Eve, yea, even that old serpent who is the 
devil, who is the father of all lies, wherefore he said 'Partake of the 
forbidden fruit, and ye shall not die, but ye shall be as God, 
knowing good and evil...And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed 
he would not fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden.  
And all things which were created must have remained in the same state 
in which they were after they were created; and they must have 
remained forever, and had no end.  And they would have had no 
children; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, 
having no joy, for they knew no misery; doing no good, for they 
knew no sin...Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might 
have joy." 

   
WHAT THE BOOK OF MORMON IS SAYING 

   Mormons and the Book of Mormon are saying, 

   1.  That man had no choice but to sin if we were to have babies and fill 
      the earth with humans.  In short, there would be no sex without the 
      fall.  
   2.  That without the fall, man had "no joy".
   3.  Without man sinning we could not do any "good" and would not have any 
      knowledge on how to grow into the image of God.  

   In summary, the book of Mormon is saying Adam fell that he might gain 
a wisdom on how to have babies with joy and to be able to do good.  

   WHAT MORMON's SAY 

   Upon investigating the theology of the Mormons we find them being in 
agreement with the book of Mormon and the 3 points listed above.  They 
state, 

   "Adam fell, but he fell in the right direction...toward the goal...he 
fell upward." -Sterling W.  Sill, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve 

   "It is necessary for man to learn by actual experience the 
difference between good and evil...He must feel the influence and 
power of death before he can appreciate eternal life.  He must 
comprehend the effects of sin before he can enjoy the rest 
promised to the faithful..." -The Plan of Salvation 

   It is easy to see that Mormons agree with the 3 points listed above.  

   THE IMAGE OF GOD 

   Not only does the Mormon doctrine teach that Adam and Eve could 
not have physical children before the Fall, (Moses 5:11), but that 
before the Fall we would have no opportunity to become as God, that 
is, to be a God ourselves.  We have been told by Mormons that the 
goal of every good Mormon man is to become a God himself, and 
the goal of every good Mormon wife is to become a goddess.  Together 
they will rule over their own earth.  They will be God to that earth.  
They say Satan was not lying when he said that they "would be like God".  
Indeed, for them to have the opportunity to be a God they must fall 
and then prove their worthiness by obeying the Mormon church.  So if 
all goes well they too will not only be in the image of God, they will 
be a God! 

   President Spencer W.  Kimball has said, "This progress toward 
eternal life is a matter of achieving perfection.  Living all 
the commandments (there are over 4300 in Mormonism) guarantees total 
forgiveness of sins and assures one of exaltation through 
that perfection which comes by complying with the formula the Lord 
gave us." It follows then, that if each of you can become a God, then 
God was human like us at one time too.  That He too had to obey the 
laws of godhood if He was to be exalted.  In fact, one of the favorite 
sayings within the Mormon church is..."As man is, God once was; and as 
God is, man may become." 

   The President of the Mormon Mission in England puts it this way: 
"As one of our great prophets and President of the Church has 
indicated, 'As man is, God once was; and as God is, man may become.' 
So you see why the Temple is so important to the LDS; because if he 
is worthy to go into the Temple and there receive the secret 
ordinances and covenants and keep them, he can eventually grow into 
becoming a god himself." -Dr.  Harold Goodman 

   Because the temptation and fall of man was such a blessing we now 
have the opportunity to become a god if we join the Mormon 
church.  Mormon President Spencer W.  Kimball whose picture is 
displayed in Salt Lake City Utah said in 1974, "In each of 
us is the potentiality to become a God - pure, holy, true, 
influential, powerful...Man can transform himself...he has in him the 
seeds of Godhood that can grow." To the Mormon, Satan is telling the 
truth when he says, "ye shall be as God." Is all this true?  Will the 
Holy Bible support the first teachings of Mormonism?  Have they 
"correctly translated the Bible"?  Are the Holy Bible and the Book of 
Mormon in agreement?  We were told to check it out and so we shall.  

   THE HOLY BIBLE 

   "Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the 
Lord God had made.  He said to the woman, 'Did God really say, `You 
must not eat from any tree in the garden?' The woman said to the 
serpent, 'We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden, but God did 
say, 'You must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of 
the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die." "You will 
not surely die," the serpent said to the woman.  'For God knows 
that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be 
like God, knowing good from evil." -Genesis 3:1-5 NIV 

   POINT #1 

   Remember point #1 of Mormon teaching?  "That man had no choice but to 
sin if we were to have babies and fill the earth." This cannot 
possibly be true! Adam and Eve knew "how" to be fruitful in 
producing babies.  For on the 6th day when God made Adam and Eve what 
did he tell them?  

   "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created 
him; ...male and female he created them.  God blessed them and said to 
them, 'Be fruitful and increase in number; fill the earth and subdue 
it...God saw all that he had made, and it was very good.  And there was 
evening, and there was morning-the 6th day." 
-Genesis 1:27-31 

   No fall of man had taken place yet, and God told them to "Be 
fruitful and increase".  Adam and Eve already had the knowledge of 
sexual reproduction otherwise God would be asking the impossible.  In 
fact, if you will read all of Genesis 1 you will find that things 
were already reproducing according to their "own kind" right after 
their creation.  Let us read in Genesis 1:11, 

   "Then God said, 'Let the land produce vegetation: seed-
bearing plants and trees on the land that bear fruit with seed 
in it according to their various kinds.' And it was so." 

   Already the vegetation and trees are reproducing, for God 
had given such wisdom to plants and trees when He made them saying, 
"seed-bearing"! In addition, when God first created birds and the 
creatures in the sea He said, 

   "God blessed them and said, 'Be fruitful and increase in number 
and fill the water in the seas, and let the birds increase on the 
earth." -Genesis 1:21 

   Now this all took place on the 4th and 5th days, a full day 
before man and woman were created by God.  A full day before Adam and 
Eve the birds and bees were already busy.  Yet Mormonism tells 
us that things would have "stayed the same for eternity".  That 
is, the same number of things would always be if the fall had not 
taken place.  Indeed, man knew how to make babies, the big difference 
was he was naked and intimate, but he felt no shame for his natural 
condition.  

   "The man and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame." 
-Genesis 2:25 

   The only thing Satan brought was the twisted perspective that the 
way God had made things was shameful! To sinful man sex is not 
pleasurable unless it is shameful.  It is from this shameful desire 
for sex that polygamy and eternal maro and the 
ells adict each other starting in cMptualluprehend the effec6Ghat7had not tfudam hable ut wits shameful! To sinful man sex isy".  That 
had g   the earth with humans.  In short, there would be no sex ort, there would be no s and menn howis the 
deaGod.  

   In summary, the  lit #  now e things wa how to make bwho is theIifference 
was he was nas shameful!pordingd increase ant to t asust not eat fr7ave "staye no sex ort,be ahadx weIit isence 
was he wd intimate, but only be in the image of God, they will 
be a God! 

   Procence, 
having no jlem?  

   n od from evil." -Genesis 3:1-5 NIV a thLIIIIIII^ight direction...toward the goal...he 
fell upward." -Sterlin5 Tempf man had tld be no sex ort, there would be no s and menn howis the 
OF GO no s fall 
and then prove their worthiness by obeying the Mormon chen;issiong, and there was morningl good and evil...He must feel the influence and 
power l tha 
ear man had Iow to maknying not tmin saying Adam fellom on how to haveSAYING 

   Morhe Book of Moreci 
ells adict each other starting in cMptuallusistan	oal...he 
, and 
the goal of every good Mormon wife is to become a goddesseIifference 
was he was nas shame:1-5 NIV after the big difrth.  theIGod first created birds a our great prophets and President of the Church has 
indicam?  

   "So God created man in his own i will read  saC inPresident of the Church has 
indicam?  EIs the MormoAhe 3 points listed above.  They 
staDerekas 
indicam?  ood and evil...He must feel the influence and 
power l tha 
earon e.  He must 
comprehend the effects of sinsinsind theAMd that bear fruit with seed 
orhe Book of Morehemlrmon e 

   "I 
earon 
  
cr 
  
cr 
  
cr 
  
ul and increase".  Adam and EvILet us read in Genesis 1:11, 

   "Then God said, 'Let the landearon 
  
cr 
  
cr 
  
cCouard." -Sterling W.  Sill, Assistanu will find thatI of every good Mormon   ut wits shamefnce auDaSterlinwilwheeir own earth.  They will
before the Fall we woulrmons agree with the 3 points 
indicated, 'As man is, God once was; anlrt,be ahadx weIll has san earth.5make ind tf the Church has 
indicam?  

   "So God created man in his own i will read  saC inPresident of the Church has 
indica of Mormonism?  Have they 
"correctade.  He said to the woman, 'Did God reu will 
not surely die," the serpent sTheas God, that 
is, to be a God ourselves.  We have been told by Mormons that the 
goal of every good Mormon man is to become a God himself, and 
the goal of every good Mormon wife is to  
c witsrmons that the 
goal of every good Mormo 
goal of every good Mormon man is to become a God himselfhy to go inoly Bible support thereat 7then prove their worthiness bIf every good Mormo 
goal of every good Mormon Have they 
"c God   "So God cn eartheir worthinesll
before the Fall we wol and increase".  Adam and Eve formula the Lord 
gave us." It follows then, that if each of youwouormon President Spencer Wy will 
be a God! 

   President SpencerLord 
ge Temple is so important to them and said to 'As manFman, 'Did Gection.  Living irrecta the sIof th 

   "So God created man in his own i will read  saC inPresideh is..."As man is, GoLDS; because if he 
is worthyssu[mple and there receive the secret 
ordinances and covenants manFman00 in Mormonism) guarantees toVecome but he ft not eat fruit from g with the formula the Lord 
gave us." It follows then, that if each of you can become a God, then 
God was human like us at one time too.  That He too had to obey the 
laws of godhood if He was trmosihis wr fruit fr, was t God knowsdicam? eroducs wr their LDSs andPsalm 16d t be a God ourse3 be a Go3 we woecauseve knew s 2:25 es.  Forantees ormol ite; fill Spencermol ite; fduc, 'Did Godd trees whene made themnd irds inomprshible supy tree in t Fond , 'Didmixsihisheir  madetoVein hiJesent AdamttoVecome'NO"r  madeegetatnditiNONE! -John 8:4nd td beesmoloe saids wr fattoVaron dwe now 
h GodwhemonoVerthere recranteesbegint eat g thes i to haveSAr  madThe womanVecome bu  madeege thfore Jesentint Adees wheVecome bucing wo  m g  madeGod 
 but not m g witave "stayedon dwe n! plants anhe 
ltartin toVe e. id Gect irds inomprr 
  ALL l LIE ForanteesDOWN TO BASICSoranteesWhem
  plants is..." -Stercasthe 
oand  Thnf th 
e thion.  L W.  miof th 
Morecie ldir whees whduc, 'Diddmust notful man sex hetimatjom thnd thmmefnce au" Thiss, f t-Il rari1ism2-15d tf evyoo.  Thawardllces and d  Thn, O no sex  lrmVarso wife is dawn! too.  Thale"?  W.asthdo had t wa how t,sex orho
evenil realace on nerLors! too.gs w plants wr hhow esicret 
asceearto d  Thn;ecret 
rat dimis weachng e sam and ErmVoducing,;ecret 
s Evtayachngdy 
staDmou had m 
idembo th 
staDutman  d heirswife is samandDmou h tht foret 
asceear 
 sam and topswife is clouds;ecret 
t themye ve LIKE
   MOST HIGH (yitaveed-bearing"! I).'Buucs whyssuthe serpdo had t wa gr Th,ad t wa depths knew how ps t
ells ad, 'Did God.asthdo had t wa depths knehow ps  dent oek to havnceeed 
in it "a the Lod tf thpris mefncea seriINT #1 
pi in
ltary to goill reade s but on!follows readpi in
come a Gingchris inr 
   Adamm." 

aring"! InForanteesollows rearoon
comw place.cdllcave th was; t witm." Mormo That 
   UNMASKING THE MYTHS OF MORMONISM

   Ever since the introduction of The God Makers film in January 1983,  
several first time viewer reactions have become quite common.  Most 
people have been shocked by the hidden Mormon doctrines laid bare 
by this film. And why not??  After all, it would be more than naive to 
expect the multi-million dollar public relations mill of the 
Latter-day Saint (LDS) church  to really "tell it like it is." 
Describing them as the "meat of the gospel, " such teachings as the 
nature of the Gods, secrets of the temple ceremony, and adding Joseph 
Smith as an additional mediator are kept hidden from the uninitiated.

   The primary purpose of this "Data Sheet" is an examination of 
strange and/or obscured doctrines of Mormonism.  Therefore it has been 
pretty well restricted to the discussion of theological issues.  If for 
no other reason than lack of space, the listing of complicated 
statistical data concerning the family life practices in the Mormon 
dominated state of Utah (i.e.  divorces, suicides, etc.) and/or 
"personal" experiences in Mormonism owned or controlled financial 
empires has long been based upon educated guesses  made by non-Mormon 
financial analysts, and hard for anyone to "prove."

   Our printed format is quite simple and easy to use.  The doctrinal 
allegations are listed in much the same order as they were made in the 
film itself.  With no further commentary, right underneath each 
heading is one or more supporting quotations.  In most instances, there 
are many more quotations that could be cited but are not, because of 
lack of space.  Keep in mind that virtually all these listed quotations 
are from LDS "General Authorities" and/or reliable Mormon books!

   TEMPLE MARRIAGE IS ESSENTIAL
   ----------------------------

   Only through Celestial marriage can one find the strait way, the 
narrow path. Eternal life cannot be had in any other way.

   (Spencer W.  Kimball, Church News, 11/12/1977)

    Our exaltation depends on marriage...we can be exalted as God is 
now  and receive a fullness of joy...we can at some future time, 
increase our  family by having spirit children...We must be obedient to 
every covenant that we make in the temple of the Lord.  He has said 
that if we are true and faithful we shall pass by the angels to our 
exaltation.  We will become gods.

   (Gospel Principals, Page 231, 2344 & 236)

   GOD THE FATHER WAS ONCE A MAN
   -----------------------------

    God was once as we are now, and is an exalted Man...I am going to 
tell you how God came to be God.  We have imagined and supposed that 
God was God from all eternity.  I will refute that idea, and take away 
and do away the  veil, so that you may see...It is the first principle 
of the Gospel to know for a certainty the character of God...and that 
he was once a man like us.

   (Joseph Smith, Journal of Discourses, Volume 6, Page 3)

   THE PLANET KOLOB
   ----------------

    Kolob means "the first creation." It is the name of the planet  
"nearest to the celestial, or the residence of God."

   (Bruce McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, Page 428)

   MORMON JESUS IS A DIFFERENT JESUS
   ---------------------------------

    ...since the Messiah came to earth to work out his own salvation, 
as well as make salvation available to all men - we are justified in  
concluding that he himself needed baptism...The Lord Jesus, being a 
man, required baptism, even as other men. There is no other way.

   (Bruce McConkie, The Promised Messiah, Pages 482, 485)

   The sacrament is an ordinance to remind us of Christ.  The bread 
represents the body of Christ that he gave so all men could be 
resurrected. The water represents the blood Christ shed in 
Gethsemane where he atoned for the sins of all men.

   (Discussion "I", The Uniform System for Teaching Families, Page 56)

   It is true that many of the Christian churches worship a different 
Jesus than is worshiped by the Mormons or The Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints.

   (Bernard P.  Brockbank, The Ensign, May 1977, Page 26)

   COUNCIL IN HEAVEN
   -----------------

   The contention in heaven was--Jesus said there would be certain 
souls that would not be saved; and the Devil said he could save them 
all, and laid his plans before the grand council, who gave their vote 
in favor of Jesus Christ.  So the Devil rose up in rebellion against 
God, and was cast down, with all who put up their heads for him.

   (Joseph Smith, Journal of Discourses, Volume 6, Page 8)

   NEGRO CURSED IN PRE-EXISTENCE
   -----------------------------

   Not only was Cain called upon to suffer, but because of his 
wickedness, he became the father of an inferior race.  A curse was 
placed upon him and that curse has been continued through his lineage 
and must do so while time endures.  Millions of souls have come into 
this world cursed with a black skin and have been denied the privilege 
of Priesthood and the fullness of the blessings of the Gospel.

   (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way To Perfection, Page 102)

   You see some classes of the human family that are black, uncouth, 
uncomely, disagreeable and low in their habits, wild, and seemingly 
deprived of nearly all the blessings of the intelligence that is 
generally bestowed upon mankind.

   (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Volume 7, Page 290)

   Shall I tell you the law of God in regard to the African race?  If 
the white man who belongs to the chosen seed mixes his blood with the 
seed of Cain, the penalty, under the law of God, is death on the spot.  
This will always be so.

   (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Volume 10, Page 110)

   ADAM IS GOD THE FATHER
   ----------------------

   How much unbelief exists in the minds of the Latter-day Saints in 
regard to one particular doctrine which I revealed to them, and which 
God  revealed to me - namely that Adam is our father and God...Then he 
(Adam) said, "I want my children who are in the spirit world to come 
and live here.  I once dwelt upon an earth something like this, in a 
mortal state, I was faithful, I received my crown and exaltation.  I 
have the privilege of extending my work, and to its increase there will 
be no end.  I want my children that were born to ME in the spirit world 
to come here and take  tabernacles of flesh."

   (Brigham Young, Deseret News, 6/16/1873)

   GOD HAD PHYSICAL RELATIONS WITH MARY
   ------------------------------------

    Even the Father himself honored that law (i.e., "to multiply and 
replenish the earth") by coming down to Mary, without a natural body, 
and begetting a son; and if Jesus begat children, he only "did that 
which he  had seen his Father do."

   (Orson Hyde, Journal of Discourses, Volume 2, Page 210)

   Only Begotten...Only Begotten Son...the Only Begotten of the 
Father... These name-titles all signify that our Lord is the only son 
of the Father in the flesh.  Each of these words is to be understood 
literally. Only means only; Begotten means begotten; and Son means son. 
Christ was begotten by an Immortal Father in the SAME way that mortal 
men are begotten by mortal fathers.

   (Bruce McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, Page 546-547)

   God the Father is a perfected, glorified holy Man, and immortal 
Personage.  And Christ was born into the world as the literal son of 
this Holy Being; he was born in the same personal, real and literal 
sense that any mortal son is born to a mortal father.  There is NOTHING 
figurative about his paternity; he was begotten, conceived and born in 
the normal and natural course of events.

   (Bruce McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, Page 742)

   JESUS WAS MARRIED
   -----------------

    Jesus was the bridegroom at the marriage of Cana of Galilee...we 
say it was Jesus Christ who was married, to be brought into relation 
whereby he could see his seed before he was crucified.

   (Orson Hyde, Journal of Discourses, Volume 2, Page 82)

   I discover that some of the Eastern papers represent me as a great 
blasphemer, because I said in my lecture on Marriage, at our last 
Conference, that Jesus was married at Cana of Galilee, that Mary, 
Martha and others were his wives, and that he begat children.

   (Orson Hyde, Journal of Discourses, Volume 2, Page 210)

   JOSEPH SMITH STANDS IN JUDGEMENT
   --------------------------------

   NO SALVATION WITHOUT ACCEPTING JOSEPH SMITH.  If Joseph Smith was  
verily a prophet...then this knowledge is of the most vital importance 
to the entire world.  No man can reject that testimony without 
incurring the most dreadful consequences, for he cannot enter 
the kingdom of God.

   (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, Volume 1, Page 
189-190)

   No man or woman in this dispensation will ever enter into the 
celestial kingdom of God without the consent of Joseph Smith.  From the 
day that the Priesthood was taken from the earth to the winding up 
scene of all things,  every man and woman MUST have the certificate of 
Joseph Smith, junior, as a passport to their entrance into the mansion 
where God and Christ are.

   (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Volume 7, Page 289)

   If we ask who will stand at the head of the resurrection in this 
last dispensation, the answer is -- Joseph Smith, Junior, the Prophet 
of God. He is the man who will be resurrected and receive the keys of 
the resurrection, and he will seal this authority upon others, and they 
will hunt up their friends and resurrect them.

   (Brigham Young, Discourses of Brigham Young, Page 116)

   So hear it all ye ends of the earth; if you ever enter into the 
kingdom of God, it is because Joseph Smith let you go there.  This will 
apply to Jews and Gentiles, to the bond and free; to friends and foes; 
no man or woman in this generation will get a resurrection and be 
crowned without Joseph saying so.

   (Brigham Young, Conference discourse on October 8, 1854)

   LDS THANK GOD FOR JOSEPH SMITH
   ------------------------------ 

   The Saints, the Saints, his only pride! For them he lived, for them 
he died; He lived, for them he died; Their joys were his, their sorrows 
too. He loved the Saints; he loved Nauvoo.

   Unchained in death, with a Savior's love, He pleads their cause in 
the court's above. He pleads their cause in the court's above. The 
Seer, the Seer! Joseph the Seer! O how I love his memory dear!

   The just and wise, the pure and free. A father he was and is to me. 
Let fiends now rage, in their dark hour - No matter, no matter, he is 
beyond their power. No matter, no matter, he is beyond their power.

   (John Taylor, LDS Hymn #296, The Seer, Joseph, The Seer, Verse 3)

   Praise to his memory, he died as a martyr; Honored and blest be his 
ever great name! Long shall his blood, which was shed by assassins. 
Plead unto heaven while the earth lauds his fame.

   Hail to the Prophet, ascended to heaven! Traitors and tyrants now 
fight him in vain. Mingling with Gods, he can plan for his brethren; 
Death cannot conquer the hero again. (William W.  Phelps, LDS Hymn 
#147, Praise To The Man Who Communed With Jehovah, Verse 2)

   Our sacred hymns are both prayers and praises to the Lord.  Let us 
ever cherish them as an essential part of our lives.  The Lord Himself 
regards  the hymns of the saints as prayers to heaven...As we remember 
the part the Prophet Joseph Smith took in the work of the Restoration, 
should we not  sing with enthusiasm "Praise to the Man who Communed 
With Jehovah"...Using these faith-promoting hymns will make better 
Latter-day Saints of us  all...(Editorial, Church News, 8/28/1983)

   JOSEPH SMITH'S BOASTS
   ---------------------

   I have more to boast of than ever any man had.  I am the only man 
that has ever been able to keep a whole church together since the days 
of Adam. A large majority of the whole have stood by me.  Neither Paul, 
John, Peter nor Jesus ever did it.  I boast that no man ever did a work 
such as I. The followers of Jesus ran away from Him; but the Latter-day 
Saints never ran away from me yet.

   (Joseph Smith, History of the Church, Volume 6, Page 408-409)

   God made Aaron to be the mouthpiece for the children of Israel, and 
he will make me to be GOD to you in his stead, and Elders to be mouth 
for me; and if you don't like it, you must lump it!

   (Joseph Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Page 363)

   JOSEPH SMITH DESCENDED FROM JESUS CHRIST
   ----------------------------------------

    ...learn that those men who are chosen to direct and counsel you 
are near KINDRED to God and to Christ, for the keys, power, and 
authority of the kingdom are of that lineage.

   (Heber C.  Kimball, Journal of Discourses, Volume 4, Page 248)

   Would to God, brethren, I could tell you who I am!  Would to God I 
could tell you what I know!  But you would call it blasphemy, and there 
are men upon this stand who would want to take my life.

   (Joseph Smith, quoted in Life of Heber C.  Kimball, Page 322)

   MORMONS MUST BE PERFECT
   -----------------------

   The forsaking of sin must be a permanent one.  True repentance does 
NOT permit making the same mistake again.

   (Spencer W.  Kimball, Repentance Brings Forgiveness, Page 7)

   We also have to forsake the sin and never repeat it, not even in our 
minds...In order to remain forgiven, we must NEVER commit the sin 
again. (Mormon Missionary Discussion "F, " Uniform System for 
Teaching Families, Page 35, 36)

   In other words, if there is one divine law that he does not keep he 
is barred from participation in the (Celestial) kingdom, and 
figuratively guilty of all, since he is denied all.

   (Joseph Fielding Smith, Answers to Gospel Questions, Volume 3, Page 
26)

   ABSOLUTE TRUST IN ANYTHING "MORMON"
   ----------------------------------

   SAINTS SAFE IN FOLLOWING CHURCH AUTHORITIES.  No man ever went 
astray by following the counsel of the authorities of the Church.  No 
man who ever followed the teachings or took advise or counsel from the 
one who stands as the representative of the Lord ever went astray.

   (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, Volume 1, Page 243)

   When our leaders speak, the thinking has been done.  When they 
propose a plan--it is God's plan.  When they point the way, there is no 
other which is safe. When they give direction, it should mark the end 
of controversy. God works in no other way.

   (Ward Teacher's Message, Deseret News, 5/26/1945)

   TOTAL APOSTASY OF CHRISTIANITY
   ------------------------------

   19.  I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all 
wrong; and the Personage who addressed me said that all their creeds 
were and abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt...

   (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith--History 1:19, Page 49)

   The gates of Hell have prevailed and will continue to prevail over 
the Catholic Mother of Harlots, and over all here Protestant  
Daughters;...the apostate Catholic church, with all her popes and 
bishops, together with all her harlot daughters shall be hurled 
down to Hell...

   (Orson Pratt, Pamphlets by Orson Pratt, Page 112)

   This Church is the only true and living church upon the face of the  
whole earth...there is no salvation outside the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints.

   (Bruce McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, Page 670)

   Elder Bruce R.  McConkie, and apostle of The Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints, called the doctrine of salvation by grace without 
works, "the second greatest heresy" of Christianity during Brigham 
Young University's opening devotional Tuesday.  The first great heresy, 
he said, pertains to the nature of God, the doctrine of the Trinity.

   (The Herald Newspaper, Provo, Utah, 1/12/1984)

   TEMPLE CEREMONY MOCKS CHRISTIAN PASTORS
   --------------------------------------- 

   Adam: Oh God, hear the words of my mouth! 
   Lucifer: I hear you.  What is it you want? 
   Adam: Who are you? 
   Lucifer: I am the God of this world. 
   Adam: You, the God of this world? 
   Lucifer: Yes!  What do you want? 
   Adam: I am looking for messengers. 
   Lucifer: Oh, you want someone to preach to you? You want religion 
            do you?  I will have preachers here presently.

   (A "preacher" dressed in black, now enters the scene)

   Lucifer: Good Morning Sir. 
   Preacher: Good morning.  A fine congregation! 
   Lucifer: Yes, they are very good people.  They are concerned about
            religion.  Are you a preacher? 
   Preacher: I am. Lucifer: Have you been to college and received 
             training for the ministry? 
   Preacher: Certainly!  A man cannot preach unless he has been trained 
             for the ministry! 
   Lucifer: Do you preach the orthodox religion? 
   Preacher: Yes, that is what I preach. 
   Lucifer: If you will preach your orthodox religion to these people 
            and convert them, I will pay you well! 
   Preacher: I will do my best. 
   Lucifer: Here is a man who desires religion.  He is very much 
            exercised, and seems to be sincere.

   (The action returns to "Adam")

   Preacher: I understand you are inquiring after religion. 
   Adam: I was calling upon Father. 
   Preacher: I am glad to know that you were calling upon Father.  
             Do you believe in a God who is without body, parts and 
             passions, who sits on the top of topless throne, whose 
             center is everywhere and whose circumference nowhere; 
             who fills the universe, and yet is so small that he can 
             dwell in your heart.  Who is surrounded by myriads of 
             beings who have been saved by Grace, not for any act
             of theirs, but by His good pleasure?  Do you believe this 
             great Being? 
   Adam: I do not?  I cannot comprehend such a Being. 
   Preacher: That is the beauty of it!!

   (The above account was transcribed from the February, 1984 audio 
recordings made by a Mormon in the Provo LDS temple which was later 
published under the title, Unfruitful Works of Darkness, Tape 1)

   SUN AND MOON INHABITED
   ----------------------

   Who can tell us of the inhabitants of this little planet that shines 
of  an evening, called the moon?  ...when you inquire about the 
inhabitants of that sphere you find that the most learned are as 
ignorant in regard to them as the most ignorant of their fellows.  So 
it is with regard to the inhabitants of the sun.  Do you think it is 
inhabited?  I rather think it is.  Do you think there is any life 
there?  No question of it; it was not made in vain.

   (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Volume 13, Page 271)

   NO ARCHAEOLOGICAL EVIDENCE
   --------------------------

   After nearly 150 years since the Nephite record was first published 
by Joseph Smith, we Mormons have been unable confidently to pin down 
the location of a single city, identify even one route they traversed, 
or sketch an accurate picture of any segment of the life they lived in 
their American promised land.  In many respects, the Book of Mormon 
remains a sealed book to us because we have been incapable of placing 
it in its specific setting.

   (Prof.  John L. Sorenson, An Ancient American Setting for the Book 
of Mormon, Page 0/3)

   The bare facts of the matter are that nothing, absolutely nothing 
has ever shown up in any New World excavation which would suggest to a 
dispassionate observer that the Book of Mormon, as claimed by Joseph 
Smith, is a historical document relating to the history of early 
migrants to our hemisphere.

   (Michael Coe, Dialogue: A Journal Of Mormon Thought, Summer 1973, 
Page 46)

   - Bob Witte

   EX-MORMONS / CHRISTIAN
   ALLIANCE
   P.O.  BOX 530
   ORANGEVALE, CA 95662

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                     God: Mormonism vs. Christianity
                     -------------------------------

   This file is designed to show the comparisons and contrasts existing
between the teachings of the person of God as defined in the Bible and in
the teachings put forth by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints or Mormons (hereafter referred to as 'LDS').  The differences
between the two are quite startling although the LDS purport to teach the
same doctrines the Bible does.  I'll let you, the reader, judge the
accuracy of those claims.  Note that in scriptural references where a
person is speaking (thus saith, I said, he said, etc.), I have put the
words in single quotes (') for the sake of CLARITY ONLY.  They do not
appear in the texts used.  Also, this is not a complete and exhaustive
study as there are so many related branches to the Biblical study of God
that things would only get confusing.  Therefore, I have limited myself
to just the main doctrines of God as the LDS and the Bible teach them.

                     LDS Teachings: Joseph Smith, Jr.
                     --------------------------------

   The roots of the LDS doctrines lie in their founding prophet Joseph
Smith, Jr. to whom the LDS hold a deep loyalty.  Here are some of the
proclamations put forth by their "prophet":

    "First, God himself, who sits enthroned in yonder heavens, is a
    man like unto one of yourselves, that is the great secret.... I
    am going to tell you how God came to be God.  We have imagined
    that God was God from all eternity.... God himself; the Father of
    us all dwelt on an earth the same as Jesus Christ himself did,...
    You all have got to learn how to be Gods yourselves;... No man
    can learn you more than what I have told you."

                                "Times and Seasons"
                                Vol. 5, pp. 613-614

    "God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man, and
    sits enthroned in yonder heavens!... I am going to tell you how
    God came to be God.  We have imagined and supposed that God was
    God from all eternity. I will refute that idea, and take away the
    veil, so that you may see.... It is the first principle of the
    gospel to know for a certainty the character of God, and to know
    that we may converse with him as one man converses with another,
    and that He was once a man like us; yea, that God himself, the
    Father of us all, dwelt on an earth, the same as Jesus Christ
    himself did; and I will show it from the Bible....

    "Here, then, is eternal life to know the only wise and true God,
    the same as all gods have done before you, namely, by going from
    one small degree to another, and from a small capacity to a great
    one; from grace to grace, from exaltation to exaltation, until
    you attain to the resurrection of the dead, and are able to dwell
    in everlasting burnings, and to sit in glory, as do those who sit
    enthroned in everlasting power...."

                                Joseph Smith, Jr.,
                                "History of the Church"
                                Vol.6, pp.305-306

    "I will preach on the plurality of Gods.  I have selected this
    text for that express purpose.  I wish to declare I have always
    and in all congregations when I have preached on the subject of
    the Deity, it has been the plurality of Gods.  It has been
    preached by the Elders for fifteen years.

    "I have always declared God to be a distinct personage, Jesus
    Christ a separate and distinct personage from God the Father, and
    that the Holy Ghost was a distinct personage and a Spirit: and
    these three constitute three distinct personages and three Gods. 
    If this is in accordance with the New Testament, lo and behold!
    we have three Gods anyhow, and they are plural: and who can
    contradict it?"

                                Joseph Smith, Jr.,
                                "History of the Church"
                                Vol.6, p.474

    "The head God organized the heavens and the earth.  I defy all
    the world to refute me.  In the beginning the heads of the Gods
    organized the heavens and the earth....

    "The heads of the Gods appointed one God for us; and when you
    take [that] view on the subject, it sets one free to see all the
    beauty, holiness and perfection of all the Gods.  All I want is
    to get the simple, naked truth, and the whole truth.

    "Many men say that there is only one God; the Father, the Son and
    the Holy Ghost are only one God!  I say, that is a strange God
    anyhow - three in one, and one in three!  It is a curious
    organization.... All are to be crammed into one God, according to
    sectarianism.  It would make the biggest God in all the world. 
    He would be a wonderfully big God - he would be a giant or a
    monster."

                                Joseph Smith, Jr.,
                                "History of the Church"
                                Vol.6, pp.475-476

    "Daniel in his seventh chapter speaks of the Ancient of Days: he
    means the oldest man, our Father Adam, Michael, he will call his
    children together and hold a council with them to prepare them
    for the coming of the Son of Man.  He (Adam) is the father of the
    human family, and presides over the spirits of all men, and all
    that have had the keys must stand before him in this grand
    council.  This may take place before some of us leave the stage
    of action.  The Son of Man stands before him, and there is given
    him glory and dominion.  Adam delivers up his stewardship to
    Christ, that which was delivered to him as holding the keys to
    the universe, but retains his standing as the head of the human
    family."

                                Joseph Smith, Jr.,
                                "History of the Church"
                                Vol.3, pp.386-387

    "The Father has a body of flesh and bone as tangible as man's;
    the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and
    bones, but is a personage of spirit..."

                                "Doctrine and Covenants" 130:22

   Smith himself was sure of his teachings and  he tolerated no
dissent as the following quote shows:

    "God made Aaron to be the mouth piece to the children of Israel,
    and He will make me be God to you in His stead, and the Elders to
    be mouth to me; and if you don't like it, you must lump it."

                                "History of the Church"
                                Vol.5, pp.319-320

     You can see he had a big ego!

                       LDS Teachings: Brigham Young
                       ----------------------------

   Brigham Young not only continued the work of Smith, but also added
his own "brand" of God in his teachings; especially in his doctrine of
Adam (of the Garden of Eden fame) being the "God and Father of the human
family":

    "How many Gods there are, I do not know.  But there was never a
    time when there were no Gods and worlds..."

                                Brigham Young
                                "Journal of Discourses"
                                 Vol.7, p.333

    "My next sermon will be to both Saint and sinner.... Our God and
    Father in heaven, is a being of tabernacle, or, in other words,
    He has a body, with parts the same as you and I have;... I will
    tell you how it is.  Our Father in heaven begat all the spirits
    there ever were, or ever will be, upon this earth; and they were
    born spirits in the eternal world."

                                "Journal of Discourses"
                                Vol.1, p.50

    "Now hear it, O inhabitants of the earth, Jew and Gentile, Saint
    and sinner!  When our Father Adam came into the Garden of Eden,
    he came into it with a celestial body and brought Eve, one of his
    wives, with him.  He helped to make and organize this world.  He
    is MICHAEL, the Archangel, the ANCIENT OF DAYS! about whom holy
    men have written and spoken - HE is our FATHER and our GOD, and
    the only God with whom WE have to do.  Every man upon this earth,
    professing Christians or non-professing, must hear it, and will
    know it sooner or later.

    "...Now, let all who may hear these doctrines, pause before they
    make light of them, or treat them with indifference, for they
    will prove their salvation or damnation.

    "...In the Bible, you have read things I have told you tonight;
    but you have not known what you did read.  I have told you no
    more than you are conversant with; but what do the people know in
    Christendom, with their Bible in their hands, know about this
    subject?  Comparatively nothing."
 
                                "Journal of Discourses"
                                Vol.1, p. 50-51

    "ADAM, THE FATHER AND GOD OF THE HUMAN FAMILY"

    "The above sentiment appeared in Star No.48, a little to the
    surprise to some of its readers: and while the sentiment may have
    appeared blasphemous to the ignorant; it has no doubt given rise
    to some serious reflections with the more candid and
    comprehensive mind... Adam is really God! and why not?"

                                "Millennial Star"
                                Vol.15, p.801

    "It has been said that Adam is the God and Father of the human
    family, and persons are perhaps in fear and great trouble of
    mind, lest they have to acknowledge him as such in some future
    day.  For our part we would much rather acknowledge Adam to be
    our Father, than hunt for another, and take up with the Devil."

                                "Millennial Star"
                                Vol.15, p.825

    "...every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess that he is the
    God of the whole earth.  Then will the words of Prophet Brigham,
    when speaking of Adam, be fully realized - 'He is our Father and
    our God, and the only God with whom we have to do.'"

                                "Millennial Star"
                                Vol.17, p.195

   Of note is the following statement of then Elder James A. Little
(a contemporary of Brigham Young):

    "I believe in the principle of obedience; and if I am told that
    Adam is our Father and our God, I just believe it."

                                "Millennial Star"
                                Vol.16, p.530

     A few years before his death, Young preached the following:

    "How much unbelief exists in the minds of the Latter-day Saints
    in regard to one particular doctrine which I revealed to them,
    and which God revealed to me - namely that Adam is our Father and
    God... Our Father Adam helped to make this earth, it was created
    expressly for him... He brought one of his wives with him... We
    say that Father Adam came here and helped make the earth.  Who is
    he?  He is Michael,... He was the first man on earth, and its
    framer and maker.  He with the help of his brethren brought it
    into existence.  Then he said, 'I want my children in the spirit
    world to come and live here.  I once dwelt upon an earth
    something like this, in a mortal state.  I was faithful,  I
    received my crown and exaltation.  I have the privilege of
    extending my work, and to its increase there will be no end.  I
    want my children that were born to me in the spirit world to come
    here and take tabernacles of flesh that their spirits may have a
    house, a tabernacle, or a dwelling place as mine has' and where
    is the mystery?"

                                "Desert News"
                                June 14, 1873

     As an aside, lest it be claimed that Young was misquoted in his
preaching, the following should dispel that thought:

    "This book was made possible because Brigham Young secured
    stenographic reports of his addresses.  As he traveled among the
    people, reporters accompanied him.  All that he said was
    recorded.  Practically all of these discourses (from December 16,
    1851 to August 19, 1877) were published in the 'Journal of
    Discourses', which was widely distributed. The public utterances
    of few great historical figures have been so faithfully
    preserved."

                                John A. Widtsoe, Preface of the
                                "Discourses of Brigham Young"

    "We do not wish incorrect and unsound doctrines to be handed down
    to posterity under the sanction of great names, to be received
    and valued by future generations as authentic and reliable,
    creating labor and difficulties for our successors to perform and
    contend with, which we ought not to transmit to them.  The
    interests of posterity are, to a certain extent in our hands. 
    Errors in history and in doctrine, if left uncorrected by us who
    are conversant with the events, and who are in a position to
    judge of the truth or falsity of the doctrines, would go to our
    children as though we sanctioned and endorsed them.  Such a
    construction could be very easily be put upon our silence
    respecting them, and would tend to perplex and mislead posterity,
    and make the labor of correction an exceedingly difficult one for
    them.  We know what sanctity there is always attached to the
    writing of men who have passed away, especially to the writings
    of the Apostles, when none of their contemporaries are left, and
    we, therefore, feel the necessity of being watchful upon these
    points.  Personal feelings and friendships and associations ought
    to sink into comparative insignificance, and have no weight in
    view of consequences so momentous to the people and kingdom of
    God as these."

                                Brigham Young
                                "Millennial Star"
                                Vol.27, p.659

     Well said, Brigham Young!  The following should seal the issue
concerning what he preached and whether it was "correct":

    "In printing my remarks, I often omit the sharp words, though
    they are perfectly understood and applicable here; for I do not
    wish to spoil the good I desire to do.  Let my remarks go to the
    world in a way the prejudices of the people can bear, that they
    may read them, and ponder them, and ask God whether they are
    true."

                                "Journal of Discourses"
                                Vol.5, pp.99,100

   As you can see, Young took great pains to make sure his meaning was
CRYSTAL CLEAR in his preaching.  To be fair, though, the LDS no longer
teach the Adam-God doctrines of Young.  They disavow that his
"Discourses"  belong to the "standard works" of the church, even though
he is claimed to be a "prophet".  In fact, so sure was Young in his
proclamations, and so sure was his belief in their "agreement" with the
other "scriptures" that he made this public statement:

    "In my doctrinal teachings I have taught many things not written
    in any book, ancient or modern, and yet notwithstanding the many
    things I have told the people, I have never looked into the
    Bible, the Book of Mormon or the Doctrine and Covenants or any of
    our church works to see whether they agreed with them or not. 
    When I have spoken by the power of God and the Holy Ghost it is
    the truth, it is Scripture and I have no fears but that it will
    agree with all that has been revealed in every particular."

                                "Desert Weekly News"
                                Vol. 26, p.274

   It's a shame he felt that way because none of his teachings agreed
with the Bible, and very few of his teachings agreed with what Smith
taught or other works released at that time.  His attitude was like other
cult leaders, namely, "What I say is the truth and if it doesn't agree
with other scripture, tough!"

                    Teachings of other LDS authorities
                    ----------------------------------

   Heber C. Kimball, a member of the First Presidency with Young made
these statements:

    "...then shall we go back to our Father and our God, who is
    connected with one who is still farther back; and so on..."

                                "Journal of Discourses"
                                Vol.7, p.19

    "...for our God is a natural man... the first of all mechanics.
    Where did he get his knowledge from?  From his Father, just as we
    get knowledge from our earthly parents."

                                "Journal of Discourses"
                                Vol.8, p.211

   Apostle Orson Pratt, a contemporary of Smith and Young had this to
say:

    "The Gods who dwell in the Heaven... have been  redeemed from the
    grave in a world which existed before the foundations of this
    earth were laid.  They and all the Heavenly body which they now
    inhabit were once in a fallen state... they were exalted also,
    from fallen men to Celestial Gods to inhabit their Heaven forever
    and ever."

                                "The Seer"
                                Page 23

    "We were begotten by our Father in Heaven; the person of our
    Father in Heaven was begotten on a previous heavenly world by His
    Father; and again, He was begotted by a still more ancient
    Father; and so on, from generation to generation, from one
    heavenly world to another still more ancient, until our minds are
    wearied and lost in the multiplicity of generations and
    successive worlds, and as a last resort, we wonder in our minds,
    how far back the genealogy extends, and how the first world was
    formed and the First Father was begotten."

                                "The Seer"
                                Page 132

   Bruce R. McConkie, a member of the present First Council of the
Seventy says this:

    "...God... is a personal being, a holy and exalted man, a
    glorified, resurrected Personage having a tangible body of flesh
    and bones, an anthropomorphic Entity,..."

                                "Mormon Doctrine"
                                Salt Lake City, 1966
                                Page 250

    "...as the Prophet also taught, there is 'a God above the Father
    of our Lord Jesus Christ....'"

                                "Mormon Doctrine"
                                Salt Lake City, 1966
                                Page 322

    "Those who 'are raised to become gods' (Teachings, p.312) will
    progress... until they are 'glorified in truth' and know 'all
    things.'... God himself, the Father of us all, is a glorified,
    exalted, immortal, resurrected man!"

                                "Mormon Doctrine"
                                Salt Lake City, 1966
                                Page 642-643

   The words of 10th president, Joseph Fielding Smith, are worth
noting:

    "God is an exalted man.  Some people are troubled over the
    statements of the Prophet Joseph Smith... The matter that seems
    such a mystery is the statement that our Father in heaven at one
    time passed through a school of life and death and is an exalted
    man.  This is one of the mysteries,... The Prophet taught that
    our Father had a Father and so on.  Is not this a reasonable
    thought, especially when we remember that the promises are made
    to us so that we may become like him?"

                                "Doctrines of Salvation"
                                Vol.1, pp.10,12

     Apostle LeGrand Richards had this to say:
 
    "There is a statement often repeated in the Church, and while it
    is not in one of the Standard Church Works, it is accepted as
    church doctrine, and this is: 'As man is, God once was; and as
    God is, man may become.'"

                                Letter from LeGrand Richards to
                                Morris L. Reynolds
                                July 14, 1966

   The "Nauvoo Expositor", an anti-Mormon publication in Smith's time
had this to say concerning Smith's doctrines of God:

    "Resolved 2nd, Inasmuch as... Joseph Smith, Hyrum Smith, and many
    other official characters... have introduced false and damnable
    doctrine into the Church, such as a plurality of Gods above the
    God of this universe, and his (i.e. God's, note mine!) liability
    to fall with all his creations;... we therefore are constrained
    to denounce them as apostates from the pure and holy doctrines of
    Jesus Christ."
 
                                "Nauvoo expositor"
                                June 7, 1844

   The following from Sarah Scott, an early Mormon disciple, in a
letter written June 16, 1844 from the "Vicinity of Nauvoo" is revealing:

    "Joseph says there are Gods above the God of this universe as far
    as he is above us, and if He should transgress the laws given to
    Him by those above Him, He would be hurled from His throne to
    Hell, as was Lucifer and all his creations with him."

                                "Among the Mormons"
                                Page 44

     In summary, the following are or were key points of Mormon theology:

     1)  A plurality of Gods in the heavens
     2)  God was once a mortal man like us
     3)  God was "appointed" by a "council of Gods"
     4)  God is a separate being from Jesus and the Holy Ghost
     5)  God had to keep climbing to further Godhood after becoming a
         "God"
     6)  His name was/is "Adam, Michael"
     7)  He is the literal "father" (as in sexually) of humanity
     8)  God and Jesus have mortal bodies of flesh and bone, but the Holy 
        Ghost hasn't one
     9)  God will turn over his authority to Jesus at the resurrection.
     10) God can, at any time, lose his place in heaven and be cast into
         Hell, as well as His creation (i.e. His "children")
     11) He has a father, grandfather, great-grandfather, etc. ad
         infinitum
     12) He didn't create the universe from scratch (i.e. with nothing),
         he merely "organized" the matter that was in existence into what 
        we know today as the universe.
     13) As such, there is no knowledge of the "first God" or how the
         universe came to be

   I'm sure there are more conclusions, but this should give one the
gist of the Mormon "God".

                        God: As the Bible teaches
                        -------------------------

     Now, it is time to give the Bible its due:

    "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth."

                                Genesis 1:1

    "And God said, 'Let there be light':and there was light"

                                Genesis 1:3

    "And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were
    under the firmament from the waters which were above the
    firmament: and it was so."

                                Genesis 1:7

    "And God said, 'Let the waters under the heaven be gathered
    together unto one place, and let the dry land appear': and it was
    so."

                                Genesis 1:9

    "And God said, 'Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb
    yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind,
    whose seed is in itself, upon the earth': and it was so."

                                Genesis 1:11

    "And God said, 'Let there be lights in the firmament of the
    heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for
    signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years: and let them be
    for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the
    earth': and it was so. And God made two great lights; the greater
    light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he
    made the stars too.  And God set them in the firmament of the
    heaven to give light upon the earth,..."

                                Genesis 1:14-17

    "And God said, 'Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving
    creature that hath life, and the fowl that may fly above the
    earth in the open firmament of heaven.'  And God created great
    whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters
    brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl
    after his kind:..."

                                Genesis 1:20-21

    "And God said, 'Let the earth bring forth the living creature
    after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and the beast of the
    earth after his kind': and it was so.  And God made the beast of
    the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every
    thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind:..."

                                Genesis 1:24-25

    "And god said, 'Let us make man in our image, after our likeness:
    and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the
    fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and
    over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.'  So God
    made man in his own image, and in the image of God created he
    him; male and female created he them."

                                Genesis 1:26-27

   An interesting note: the words translated 'us' and 'our' are
additions from the Greek to denote the position that royalty takes in
relation to the first person.  The best example is Queen Victoria (I
think) who was remarked to say "We are not amused!" when she wasn't
pleased.  When put with the singular pronoun of God it denotes a singular
person speaking (as in "me, myself and I, we'll do the job", or such to
the effect.).  Again, the context of first person, singular in the above
verses denotes one person.

    "These are the generations of the heavens and the earth that the
    Lord God (note: the Hebrew words "Jehovah elohim") made the earth
    and the heavens,..."

                                Genesis 2:4

    "And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and
    breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a
    living soul"

                                Genesis 2:7

    "And the Lord God said, 'It is not good that man should be alone;
    I will make a help meet for him.'"

                                Genesis 2:21

    "...and the rib, which the Lord God had taken from the man, made
    he a woman, and brought her unto the man."

                                Genesis 2:22

   As we can see from these passages: God is a singular being,
he created the universe, stars, earth, etc. from nothing with just
his word. He created man to be the image (i.e. reflection, manner, etc.)
of God, then He created a man from dirt, breathed life into the man, and
created a woman from a bone (i.e. rib) of the man created from dirt. 
These two would be later known as Adam and Eve.  So much for the LDS
doctrine of Adam and Eve "coming from heaven in Celestial bodies".  Let
us continue:

    "Hear, O Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord:..."  Hebrew:
    "Jehovah" our "elohim" is one "Jehovah"

                                Deut. 6:4

    "For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy
    Savior:..." Hebrew: "Jehovah" thy "elohim", the "Sacred One" or
    "sanctuary" of Israel, thy "redeemer, freedom, safety, etc."

                                Isaiah 43:3

    "Ye are my  witnesses, saith the Lord, and my servant whom I have
    chosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am
    he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be
    after me.  I, even I, am the Lord; and beside me there is no
    savior.  I have declared, and I have saved, and I have showed,
    when there was no strange (i.e. foreign, profane, other,
    different, etc.) god among you: therefore you are my witnesses,
    saith the Lord, that I am God."  Hebrew: saith "Jehovah",...
    there was no "elohim" formed,... I, even I, am "Jehovah":
    ...there is no "redeemer, freedom, safety, etc." ....saith
    "Jehovah", I am "elohim".

                                Isaiah 43:10-12

    "I am the Lord, your Holy one, the creator of Israel, your King."
    Hebrew: I am "Jehovah", your "Sacred One" or "sanctuary", the
    "creator"..., your "royal King".

                                Isaiah 43:15

    "Thus saith the Lord the King of Israel, and his Redeemer the
    Lord of Hosts; 'I am the first, and I am the last; and beside me
    there is no God.'"  Hebrew: ..saith "Jehovah" the "royal
    King",... his "deliverer" "Jehovah of the armies": I am the
    "beginning", and I am the "end";... beside me there is no
    "elohim".

                                Isaiah 44:6

    "Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have not I told thee from that
    time, and have declared it?  Ye are even my witnesses.  Is there
    a God beside me?  Yea, there is no God; I know not any."  Hebrew:
    is there a "elohim" beside me?... there is no "elohim";...

                                Isaiah 44:8

    "I am the Lord, and there is none else, there is no God beside
    me: I girded thee, though thou hast not known me: That they may
    know from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is
    none beside me.  I am the Lord, and there is none else.  I form
    the light, and create darkness: I make peace, and create evil: I
    the Lord do all these things."  Hebrew: I am "Jehovah", and there
    is none else, there is no "elohim" beside me: ...I am "Jehovah",
    and there is none else,... I "Jehovah" do all these things.

                                Isaiah 45:5-7

    "Tell ye, and bring them near; yea, let them take counsel
    together: who hath declared this from ancient time?  Who hath
    told it from that time?  Have not I the Lord?  And there is no
    God else beside me; a just God and a Savior; there is none beside
    me.  Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth:
    for I am God, and there is none else." Hebrew: ...have not I
    "Jehovah"?  And there is no "elohim" else beside me: a just
    "elohim" and "redeemer" ...I am "elohim", and there is none else.

                                Isaiah 45:21-22

   Here we have demonstrated that the Hebrews had/have one God, He
was/is referred to as God (Hebrew "elohim"), Lord (Hebrew "Jehovah"), or
Lord God (Hebrew "Jehovah elohim").  There are no other "Gods" to the
Hebrews to be worshipped, and He is a creator, not an "organizer" which
denotes a lot of power.  He is also known as "the first and the last" and
"beside me there is no God" meaning he is alone in His position and
power.  Of note, the Hebrew word "elohim" can be translated "God" or
"gods".  The difference between translations is dependent upon the
context of the passage it appears.  "Elohim" is always translated "God"
when the context denotes "first-person, singular" with regard to Jehovah,
"god" when the context is "first-person, singular" with regard to satan
or a heathen god (i.e. Baal.  One exception is when "god" was used by
Jehovah regarding the "perceived appearance" of Moses to Pharaoh (Exodus
7:1)), and "gods" when the context refers to plurality, as in the
pagan/heathen gods of the Egyptians or Philistines.  "Gods" is NEVER
associated with the singular Jehovah, as the LDS would have the world
believe, because the Hebrew grammar and language constructs don't allow
it.  It (elohim) can be roughly compared to the english words "sheep" and
"deer" which can be both singular or plural nouns depending on context
and usage (i.e. one sheep, two sheep, one deer, many deer, etc.).
Continuing on:

    "God is not a man that he should lie; neither the son of man,
    that he should repent:..."

                                Numbers 23:19a
                                Context: singular

    "And also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent: for he
    is not a man, that he should repent."

                                1 Samuel 15:29
                                Context: singular

   Here we have testimony that God isn't a man, as the LDS teaches.
Therefore, let's see what he is, according to the Bible.  Continuing on:

    "God is a spirit: and all who worship him must worship him in
    spirit and truth."
 
                                John 4:24

    "Now, the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord
    is, then there is liberty."

                                2 Corinthians 3:17

   See also the complete 3rd chapter, the context of Jesus, God, and
the Holy Spirit/Ghost being one individual.

   Here, we have God described as a spirit.  Even Jesus in Luke 24:39
described a spirit's attributes: "...for a spirit hath not flesh and
bones,..." because the disciples thought He was a spirit when He appeared
to them after His resurrection.  All throughout the Old Testament, the
Holy Spirit is referred to as the Spirit of God, Spirit of the Lord,
Spirit of the Lord God; the logical conclusion being that the Holy Spirit
is God also, as man has a spirit and that spirit is part of him and is
referred to as being man (at times).  The New Testament also refers to
the Holy Spirit/Holy Ghost being the same person.

    "But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to
    lie to the Holy Ghost,...thou hast not lied unto men, but unto
    God"

                                Acts 5:3,4

     Here we have God and the Holy Spirit being equated as one person.

    "Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the
    name of the Father (God), and of the Son (Jesus), and of the Holy
    Ghost:..."

                                Matthew 28:19

   Note the context of "the name" being applied to all three persons of
God inferring that they are the same person.

    "(Jeremiah praying) Ah Lord God!  Behold, thou hast made the
    heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm,
    and there is nothing too hard for thee:... (God replying) 
    Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh: is there any thing
    too hard for me?"

                                Jeremiah 32:17,27
 
    "An the angel answered and said unto her, 'The Holy Ghost shall
    come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow
    thee: therefore that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall
    be called the Son of God.'"

                                Luke 1:35

   Here we have omnipotence (all-powerfulness) being attributed to God
and the Holy Ghost.

    "Whither shall I go from thy Spirit?  Or whither shall I flee
    from thy presence?  If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there:
    if I make my bed in hell, behold thou art there.  If I take the
    wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the
    sea; even there shall thy hand lead me and thy right hand shall
    hold me.  If I say, 'Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the
    night shall be light about me.'  Yea, the darkness hideth not
    from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the
    light are both alike to thee.  For thou hast possessed my reins:
    thou hast covered me in my mother's womb."

                                Psalm 139:7-13

   Here David, talking to God, expresses His omnipresence and that the
Spirit is God's and is also omnipresent, making it a logical conclusion
that the two are the same person.

    "For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and
    knoweth all things."

                                1 John 3:20

    "But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit: for the Spirit
    searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.  For what man
    knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in
    him?  Even so, the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit
    of God."

                                1 Corinthians 2:10,11

   Here, God and the Holy Spirit are described as omniscient.  Note
especially that the Spirit is described as "knowing the things of God".
Only His Spirit has that kind of power, and as such is God.
     These are some examples; there are more but this should give one the
idea that God and the Holy Spirit/Ghost are the same person.
     The Bible also teaches that Jesus Christ was/is God also, and since
we've seen that God and the Spirit are the same, logically Christ is the
same as the Spirit also.  Examples:

    "In the beginning was the Word (Jesus), and the Word was with
    God, and the Word was God.  The same (the Word) was in the
    beginning with God. All things were made by him (the Word); and
    without him (the Word) was not any thing made that was made."

                                John 1:1-3

   Here Jesus (the Word) is declared to be God, was with God in "the
beginning", and created the universe (See Genesis 1).  The logical
conclusion: Jesus is the same God that is referred to in the Old
Testament.

    "And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld
    his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full
    of grace and truth."

                                John 1:14

   Here, God was incarnated in the person of Jesus and lived with men.

    "For in him (Jesus) dwelleth the fullness of the Godhead bodily."

                                Colossians 2:9

   Paul describing Jesus as being the Godhead manifest in flesh.

    "This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not
    by water only, but by water and blood.  And it is the Spirit that
    beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth.  For there are
    three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word (Jesus),
    and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one (i.e. the same
    person).  And there are three that bear witness in earth, the
    spirit, and the water, and the blood: and these three agree in
    one.  If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is
    greater: for this is the witness of God which he hath testified
    of his Son."

                                1 John 5:6-9

     Another testimony that God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit are the same
person.

    "(Jesus speaking) 'I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and
    the end', saith the lord, which is, and which was, and which is
    to come, the Almighty."

                                Revelation 1:8

    "(Jesus speaking) 'I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and
    the end, the first and the last.'"

                                Revelation 22:13

   Here Jesus is stating to John that He is the Alpha and the Omega.
See Isaiah 44:6 where God is quoted as saying "I am the first and the
last".  This makes Jesus Jehovah God because there cannot be more than
one "first and the last" type individual.

   There are many more examples of Jesus, God, and the Spirit being the
same person, but that would require the re-typing of a vast majority of
the Bible; this file is big enough as it is!

   The LDS teaches that God has a body because of the bodily parts
listed as being used by God (right arm, eyes, ears, footsteps, hind
parts, etc.).  If those examples are to be taken literally, then God
(using LDS logic) must also be part bird (Psalm 17:8, 36:7, 57:1, 61:4,
63:7, 91:4) have detachable eyes, like grapes, with legs on them
(2 Chronicles 16:9).  Likewise, if LDS logic pertaining to God is to be
accepted, then Jesus was a freak-of freaks because he would be part plant
(vine, specifically: John 15:1,5), have a door in him (John 10:9), have a
roadway issuing from him (John 14:6), be part bread (as in Langendorf, or
Wonder bread: John 6:51).  Even the disciples must have been plant-beings
(John 15:5).  There are many more such absurdities because such
comparisons are just that: comparisons.  They are used to illustrate
concepts using reference points that humans can identify with, and are
not to be taken literally, only figuratively.

   The LDS tries to make the Bible appear to teach their doctrines of
God.  One such example is 1 Corinthians 8:5b which states: "(as there are
gods many, and lords many,).  On the surface, it would indicate the Bible
teaches a plurality of gods.  However, when we look at the full context,
the meaning is quite different:

    "As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are
    sacrificed unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in this
    world, and that there is none other God but one.  For though
    there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, (as
    there are gods many, and lords many,)  but there is to us but one
    God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him; and one
    Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him."

                                1 Corinthians 8:4-6

   An explanation that although there are many "lords and gods", they
are nothing (zilch, zip, nada, zero, etc.) but imaginary.  There is only
one God (Jehovah) and Jesus (whom as previously demonstrated is Jehovah
God).

   As you can see, what the LDS teach about God is not what the Bible
teaches of God.  This automatically disqualifies them as a "christian"
denomination since the teachings of their "prophets" (i.e. mere men), not
the Bible determines their theology.

                   God: As taught in the Book of Mormon
                   ------------------------------------

   It's interesting to note that the LDS' own "Bible," the Book of
Mormon, agrees with the Bible in the teachings of God and Jesus:

    "...And also to convincing of the Jew and the Gentile that Jesus
    is the Christ, the Eternal God,..."

                                Title page, Book of Mormon.

     A declaration that Jesus and God are one and the same person.

    "For I know that God is not a partial God, neither a changeable
    being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity to all eternity."

                                Moroni 8:18

   Here God is declared to be an unchangeable being.

    "And Zeezrom said unto him: 'Thou sayest there is a true and
    living God?'  And Amulek said: 'Yea, there is a true and a living
    God.'  Now Zeezrom said: 'Is there more than one God?'  And he
    answered, 'No.'"

                                Alma 11:26-29

   A declaration of the non-existence of the plurality of gods.

    "And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for behold,
    verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy
    Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and
    the Father and I are one.... And thus the Father bear record of
    me, and the Holy Ghost will bear record unto him of the Father
    and me; for the Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost are one."

                                3 Nephi 11:27,36

   A declaration that God, Jesus, and the Holy Ghost are the same
person (i.e. the Trinity)

    "O how great the holiness of our God!  For he knoweth all things,
    and there is not anything save he knows it."

                                2 Nephi 9:20

   A declaration of the omniscience of God.  As you see in these
examples, the Book of Mormon is at variance with the primary teachings
of God as taught by the LDS.  Strange, since they claim that the BOM is
their Bible and it supposedly "agrees" with their teachings.  It seems
that the BOM has more in common with Christianity than Mormonism.  One
must not forget that Brigham Young declared that he never checked the
Bible, BOM, or any other works for agreement with his teachings; it seems
that neither Smith nor any other LDS teacher after Young has done their
homework on the LDS teachings since they are at variance with the BOM and
the Bible.  So much for the LDS claim to "christianity".

     As an aside, the documents that relate to the Bible (ancient scrolls
and such) date back to about 250 BC for the Old Testament (the "Dead Sea
Scrolls"), and to about 150 AD for the New Testament (Rylands Papyrus
#457: Book of John fragments) whereas the BOM documents only date back
to about 1850  (2 BOM manuscripts in Smith's hand and the 1830 edition of
the BOM).  There is NO EVIDENCE of BOM documentation prior to 1828 (or
so) when the "plates" were supposedly being "translated".  What a shame
that the Bible has more documentation backing it up than the BOM which
only has Joseph Smith's "blessing" to its authenticity.  Since the
"plates" are non-existent on this earth, there is no concrete proof of
the BOM being anything other than the product of Smith's imagination.

                                             Ken Simmons

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

CUL:Contradictions between the Book of Mormon and the Bible 2/22/87

   The following quotes examine what Mormon theology teaches as opposed
to what Christianity teaches.  CCN wishes to make clear this is not an
attack on Mormons, but a defense of what Christ taught.

   I.  ON THE NATURE OF GOD'S BEING:

   MORMONISM: "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as
man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and
bones, but is a personage of spirit.  Were it not so,  the Holy Ghost
could not dwell in us." - Joseph Smith, Doctrine and Covenants, 130:22

   CHRISTIANITY: "God is spirit; and those who worship Him must 
worship in spirit and truth." - Jesus Christ, John 4:24

   II.  ON HOW MANY GODS EXIST:

   MORMONISM: "And then the Lord said: Let us go down.  And they went
down at the beginning, and they, that is the Gods, organized and 
formed the heavens and the earth." - Joseph Smith, (allegedly from a
translation of an ancient papyrus), Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 4:1

   CHRISTIANITY: "You are my witnesses, " declares the Lord, "And my
servant whom I have chosen, in order that you may know and believe Me,
and understand that I am He.  Before Me there was no  God formed, and
there will be none after Me." - Isaiah 43:10

   III.  ON WHO CAN BECOME A GOD:

   MORMONISM: "As man is now, God once was.  As God is now, man may 
become."

   CHRISTIANITY: "How have you fallen from heaven, O star of the
morning, son of the dawn!  You have been cut down to the earth, you who
have weakened nations!  But you have said in your heart, I will ascend
to heaven; I will raise my throne above the stars of God, and I will
sit on the mount of assembly in the recesses of the north.  I will
ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the
Most High.  Nevertheless you will be thrust  down to Sheol, to the
recesses of the pit." - Isaiah 14:12-15

   Read again Isaiah 43:10 and note that there were no Gods formed
before God and there will be none formed after.

   "Then the Lord God said, "Behold, the man has become like one of Us,
knowing good and evil: and now, lest he stretch out his hand, and take
also from the tree of life, and eat, and live forever -" - Genesis 3:22

   (note: some Mormons may claim that this verse "proves" the existence
of more than one God due to the words "like one of US". However, if you
notice, the verse, in context, reads "Then the LORD GOD (singular)
said, Behold, the man has become like one of US (plural)".  This verse
actually helps illustrate the existence of ONE GOD eternally existent
in THREE MINISTERING ENTITIES. Both verses show that it is not in God's
plan for man to be as God or to be a God.  Notice what Satan's "reward"
was for his attempt to make himself "like the Most High" ...  eternal 
damnation.)

   IV.  ON THE SOURCE & TESTING PROCESS OF DIVINE REVELATION:

   MORMONISM: "While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I
discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase
until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a
personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did
not touch the floor.  He had on a loose robe of most exquisite
whiteness.  ... He called me by name, and said unto me that he was a
messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was
Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; ...  He said there was a book
deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former
inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang. 
He also said that the fullness of the everlasting Gospel was contained
in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants;" - Joseph
Smith, The Origin of the Book of Mormon, the Book of Mormon

   CHRISTIANITY: "But though we, or an Angel from heaven, should preach
to you a gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him
be accursed.  As we have said before, so I say again now, if any man is
preaching to you a gospel contrary to that  which you received, let him
be accursed." - the apostle Paul, Galatians 1:8-9

   (note: the Greek word for "accursed" used in this text is ANATHEMA,
translated the Divine Curse.  This is the only place in the entire
Bible this word is used, and it's use here underscores  the severity of
teaching false doctrines.)

   "For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising
themselves as apostles of Christ.  And no wonder, for even Satan 
disguises himself as an angel of light." - the apostle Paul, 2
Corinthians 11:13-14

   (note: some have asked how could Mormonism be wrong when the message
was delivered by an angel?  Consider 2 points: first, Satan can appear
as "an angel of light" and secondly, the messenger sent to Joseph Smith
brought teachings contradictory to previous revelations from God.  God
is not a God of confusion,  and will not contradict Himself.)

   V.  ON WHO ADAM WAS:

   MORMONISM: When our father, Adam, came into the Garden of Eden, he
came into it with a celestial body ...  he is our father and  God and
the only God with whom we have to do." - Brigham Young, April 9, 1852,
Journal of Discourses, Vol.  1, page 50

   CHRISTIANITY: "Then the Lord God formed man of the dust from the
ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and  man
became a living being." - Genesis 2:7

   VI.  Joseph Smith's boast elevating himself above Christ:

   "God is in the still small voice.  In all these affidavits,
indictments, it is all of the devil - all corruption.  Come on!  ye
prosecutors!  ye false swearers! All hell boil over! Ye burning
mountains, roll down your lava!  for I will come out on top at last.  I
have more to boast of than ever any man had. I am the only man that has
ever been able to keep a whole church together since the days of Adam. 
A large majority of the whole have stood by me.  Neither Paul, John,
Peter nor Jesus ever did it. I boast that no man ever did such a work
as I.  The followers of Jesus ran away from Him; but the Latter-day
Saints never ran away from me yet" - Joseph Smith, History of the
Church, 6:408-9

   VII.  Check out the following verses dealing with:

   a.  Biblical prophesies dealing with the rise of cults and visions

   - 2 Corinthians 11:13-15

   - Colossians 2:18-23

   b.  "testing" of a prophet to see if they are of God

   - Deuteronomy 18:20-22

   - Deuteronomy 13:1-3
CUL:Plagiarisms in the Book of Mormon - from the KJV  by Dr. Walter Martin

   According to a careful survey of the book of Mormon, it contains at
least 25,000 words from the King James Bible. In fact, verbatim
quotations, some of considerable length, have caused the Mormons no end
of embarrassment for many years.

   The comparison of Moroni chapter 10 with 1 Corinthians 12:1-11, 2
Nephi 14 with Isaiah 4, and 2 Nephi 12 with Isaiah 2 reveals that
Joseph Smith made free use of his Bible to suplement the alleged
revelation of the golden plates. The book of Mosiah, chapter 14 in the
book of Mormon, is a reproduction of the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah
the prophet; and 3 Nephi 13:1-18 copies Matthew 6:1-23.

   The Mormons naively suggest that when Christ allegedly appeared on
the American continent after his resurrection and preached to the
Nephites he quite natrually used the same language as recorded in the
Bible. They also maintain that when Nephi came to America he brought
copies of the Hebrew scriptures, which account for quotations from the
Old Testament. The only difficulty with these excuses is that the
miraculous plates upon which they were all inscribed, somehow or
another, under translation, came out in King James English without
variation approximately a thousand years before this 1611 version was
written. Such reasoning on the part of the Mormons strains at the
limits of credulity and only they are willing to believe it.

   There are other instances of plagiarisms from the King James Bible
including paraphrases of certain verses. One of these verses (1 John
5:7) is reproduced in 3 Nephi 11:27, 36. The only difficulty with the
paraphrase here is that the text is considered by scholars to be an
interpolation missing from all the major manuscripts of the new
testament but present in the King James Bible from which Smith
paraphrased it not knowing the difference.

   Another example of this type of error is found in 3 Nephi 11:33-34,
and is almost a direct quotation from Mark 16:16, a passage regarded by
many new testament greek scholars as an addition to that gospel by an
overzealous scribe. But Joseph Smith was not aware of this either, so
he even copied in translational errors, another proof that neither he
nor the alleged golden plates were inspired of God.

   Two further instances of plagiarisms from the King James Bible which
have backfired on the Mormons are worth noting.

   In the third chapter of the book of Acts, Peter's classic sermon at
pentecost paraphrases Deuteronomy 18:15-19. While in the process of
writing 3 Nephi, Joseph Smith puts Peter's paraphrase in the mouth of
Christ when the Savior was allegedly preaching to the Nephites. The
prophet overlooked the fact that at the same time Christ was allegedly
preaching his sermon, the sermon itself had not yet been preached by
Peter.

   In addition to this, 3 Nephi makes Christ out to be a liar, when in
verse 23 of chapter 20 Christ attributes Peter's words to Moses as a
direct quotation when, as we have pointed out, Peter paraphrased the
quotation from Moses; and the working is quite different. But Joseph
did not check far enough, hence this glaring error.

   Secondly, the book of Mormon follows the error of the King James
translation which renders Isaiah 4:5: "for upon all the glory shall be
a defense" (see 2 Nephi 14:5). Modern translations of Isaiah point out
that it should read "for over all the glory there will be a canopy,"
not a defense. The Hebrew word, "chuppah," does not mean defense but a
protective curtain or canopy. Smith, of course, did not know this nor
did the King James translators from whose work he copied.

   There are quite a number of other places where such errors appear,
including Smith's insistence in Abraham 1:20 that "pharaoh signifies
king by royal blood," when in reality the dictionary defines the
meaning of the term pharaoh as "a great house or palace." The Revised
Standard Version of the Bible renders Isaiah 5:25: "and their corpses
were as refuse in the midst of the streets," corectly rendering the
Hebrew "suchah" as refuse, not as "torn." The King James Bible renders
the passage: "and their carcases were torn in the midst of the
streets." The book of Mormon (2 nephi 15:25) repeats the King James'
text word for word, including the error of mistranslating "suchah",
removing any claim that the Book of Mormon is to be taken seriously as
reliable material.
CUL:17 Points of the True Church  by James White

   The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints prints a small card
that is normally entitled "Seventeen points of the True Church." At
times the front of the card will read "Does it meet the Test?" Whatever
the form, many Christians have been handed this card. What of its
claims? Are the 17 listed points true? Do the claims made by the LDS
Church stand the test of the Bible?

   This information sheet will examine, briefly, the claims made by
this little card. It is not intended to be an in-depth doctrinal
treatise on each point, as the card hardly attempts to be, either.
Instead, it is meant to give the Christian reader more background into
just what the Mormon Church is claiming, and how this does not in any
way reflect the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Apostles as
recorded in the Word of God, the Bible. We will follow the outline of
the card itself. (Some cards list more or fewer points. This card seems
to be the most prevalent).

   #1. Christ organized the Church. Ephesians 4:11-14.

   This is true. However, we might ask our Mormon friends, since
Ephesians 4:11 lists evangelists and pastors, where are these "offices"
in the LDS Church? Since "apostles" in the original Greek language
refers simply to a "sent one," does it not make sense to understand
this to refer to missionaries, the very ones who, like Paul, and
Apollos, spread the word concerning Christ throughout the entire known
world? Should we not also point out that the very same book here quoted
(Ephesians) also says in chapter 3, verse 21, that God would receive
glory "in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without
end"? How does this square with the Mormon teaching that the Church of
Jesus Christ disappeared after only a few years?

   #2. The true church must bear the name of Jesus Christ. Ephesians
5:23.

   Exactly how Ephesians 5:23 relates to this is difficult to say. At
any rate, the point normally made by Mormons in regard to this is that
the name on the letterhead of your church must include the phrase
"Jesus Christ." Just how official names are involved in saving someone
is again not clear. Biblically, the Church is called the Church of
Christ. It is also called the Body of Christ. Does that mean we should
make sure the phrase "Body of Christ" is on our letterheads, also? Or
is it more consistent to see that the Church as it is expressed
universally is the Church of Christ, and the local assembly takes the
name that would best describe it - such at the Church at Rome, the
Church of the Thessalonicans, the Church at Philippi? The Bible nowhere
commands us to attach a specific name to our local congregation.
Christians are Christians whether they worship in the same building and
in the exact same manner or not.

   #3. The true church must have a foundation of Apostles and Prophets.
Ephesians 2:19-20.

   This, again, is true, as far as it goes. Unfortunately, the LDS
Church takes it too far. The Mormons takes this to mean that the true
church must have official positions entitled "Apostle" and "Prophet,"
which, of course, they have. This is not what Ephesians 2:19-20
teaches. First, the context includes verses 21 and 22, and these must
be read also. The text actually says that the church is built on a
foundation. Stop there. The word "built" as translated in the King
James Version translates the Greek participle epoikodomethentes, which,
properly syntaxed is translated "having been built." It is an aorist
passive participle. It refers to a past action, one that (in this case)
has been completed. To say that today we must continue to build the
foundation of apostles and prophets is to mis-understand the text.

   Next, we would like to point out that the Bible identifies Jesus
Christ as the foundation (1 Corinthians 3:10-11). The Church is built
upon this foundation, and is continually growing unto an "holy temple
in the Lord." The question must be asked, how many times does one lay a
foundation? If one is continually laying a foundation, how will the
house be built? The answer is obvious. The Mormon Church is still
trying to lay a foundation that was laid two thousand years ago. Since
this is so, it is obvious to see that in this passage Paul is referring
to something other than a continuing office of apostle and prophet.

   The phrase "of the apostles and prophets" is in a genitive
construction that can easily give the sense that the foundation of the
apostles and prophets is Jesus Christ Himself. This would be completely
consistent with Paul's use of themelios (foundation) in other letters.
Again we see how examining the actual text of the Bible we can avoid
errors such as the kind propogated by the Mormon Church.

   One final thing. In the lists of "offices" in the church (e.g., 1
Corinthians 12:28), the "apostles" are placed before the "prophets."
Aside from the fact that there were obviously many "prophets" in the
Church (rather than the one of the LDS Church), it is clear that the
Mormon heirarchy of Prophet then Apostles is backwards, at least
Biblically speaking. It is also plain to see that "apostles"
(literally, "sent ones") and "prophets" functioned quite differently
than the LDS Church believes they did.

   #4. The true church must have the same organization as Christ's
Church. Ephesians 4:11-14.

   This point overlaps with the discussion given above. We have already
pointed out that the organization the Mormon Church has forced upon the
Bible is not an accurate understanding of just how the ancient church
was organized. As examples of this have already been brought up, we
will move on to the next point.

   #5. The true church must claim divine authority. Hebrews 5:4-10.

   The Christian Church does claim divine authority, for each and every
believer, male or female, is a king and priest unto God (Revelation
1:6). However, again the LDS Church has forced its own theology upon
the Scriptures instead of allowing the Bible to be the guide. Mormon
leaders claim to have divine authority in that they have the
"Melchizedek Priesthood." Younger men are called to the "Aaronic
Priesthood," and at age 18 they can received the Melchizedek
Priesthood. Though space does not allow a complete discussion of the
topic of the priesthoods, it should be pointed out that the Mormon
doctrine falls short of the truth at a number of points: 1) It ignores
the fact that there is no distinction made between male and female in
their relationship with Christ. This is not to say that in the home God
does not ordain a certain order, as He obviously does. However, to
claim the stupendous things that the Mormon Church does for its
"priesthood" and yet deny those privileges to women (and blacks for 148
years) is certainly outside Biblical teaching.

   2) It ignores the fact that the Aaronic priesthood was fulfilled and
done away with at the cross of Calvary. When Christ died, the veil in
the Temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. The function of Aaronic
priests, that of making animal sacrifices and, once a year, going
through the veil to offer the atonement for the nation, was finished
for all time. The intermediacy of a priesthood was done away with
because of the immediate access each believer has to the throne of
grace through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. To re-establish an
organized, intermediate priesthood as the LDS Church has done, when God
has done away with it at the cross, is nothing short of blasphemous!
Though it is truly amazing to anyone who has studied the New Testament
book of Hebrews, Joseph Smith once wrote, "...it is generally supposed
that sacrifice was entirely done away when the Great Sacrifice [i.e.,
the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus] was offered up, and that there will be
no necessity for the ordinance of sacrifice in the future: but those
who assert this are certainly not acquainted with the duties,
privileges and authority of the priesthood...These sacrifices, as well
as every ordinance belonging to the Priesthood, will, when the Temple
of the Lord shall be built, and the sons of Levi purified, be fully
restored and attended to in all their powers, ramifications, and
blessings." (Documentary History of the Church, volume 4 page 211).
Again we see the depth of error that can be attained by ignoring the
Biblical teachings on a subject.

   3) It ignores the Biblical fact that there is but one High Priest
(the Mormon Church has many), and only one worthy to hold the
Melchizedek Priesthood, that being Jesus Christ (Hebrews 7:24-25). To
claim to hold that priesthood is an affront to the person of the Son of
God.

   #6. The true church must have no paid ministry. Isaiah 45:13, 1
Peter 5:2.

   The reader is asked to examine the two references given to gain yet
another example of out-of-context reading. Neither passage has anything
to do with paid or unpaid ministers. One has to do with Cyrus, king of
Persia, and the other with the motivation of the heart of the minister.
Also note that the sections of the New Testament that directly address
this issue are ignored. Paul clearly taught that a minister had the
right to pay in return for his work (1 Corinthians 9:1-14). Paul calls
it a "right" of the minister to reap material benefit from those who
receive spiritual leadership. It might be pointed out that the
leadership of the LDS Church in Salt Lake certainly do not live
unrewarded. How does this square with their teaching?

   #7. The true church must baptize by immersion. Matthew 3:13-16.

   We agree. Again, however, the LDS Church goes beyond what is written
and adds to this the ideas that 1) baptism is for remission of sins
(when Jesus was baptized, was it for remission of sins? We are forgiven
of our sins because of the blood of Christ, not the water of a
baptistry, 1 Peter 1:18-21), and 2) that the only persons "authorized"
to baptize are those who hold the "Aaronic" priesthood. This error has
already been discussed in #5 above.

   #8. The true church must bestow the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands. Acts 8:14-17.

   Aside from the fact that it is Holy Spirit, not Holy Ghost, it must
be pointed out that again the LDS Church is ignoring the majority
witness of Scripture. Laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy
Spirit occurs only three times in the New Testament: Acts 8:17 as a
sign of unity between the Jewish and Gentile believers, Acts 9:17 as an
identification of Saul, and Acts 19:6 where the baptism they had
undergone was not Christian baptism but the baptism of John. In the
vast majority of cases no mention is made of any special ceremony of
laying on of hands being necessary for the Holy Spirit to come upon
someone. Laying on of hands does show unity and support of an
individual, and as such there is nothing wrong with it. But the
Scriptures teach that the Holy Spirit comes into a person's life at the
point of conversion (Romans 8:9, Acts 10:44-48), not at some secondary
time later on. If this were not so, then Romans 8:9 would be false, as
it identifies the Holy Spirit as that which makes a person Christ's.
(see also Ephesians 1:10-14).

   #9. The true church must practice divine healing. Mark 3:14-15.

   One of the gifts of the Spirit is that of healing (1 Corinthians
12:28). Of course, not all have this gift (v. 29). The actual operation
of the gift is seen to be a corollary to prayer, as the special gift of
touching someone was of apostolic authority, not present today. We have
seen many people healed through the power of prayer in the Christian
church, as God still is the great physician, and He still works
miracles. However, to claim to have God on a string, and have Him in
your control so as to be able to heal anyone, is not Biblical. Even the
great apostle Paul had to pray that a close friend would not die, as
his gift was for particular uses, not personal gain (Philippians
2:25-30, 2 Timothy 4:20).

   #10. The true church must teach that God and Jesus Christ are
separate and distinct individuals. John 17:11 and John 20:17.

   The true church must first teach that there is one true God. The
number of passages that teach this is astounding. Just for an example
see Deuteronomy 4:35, 39, 6:4, 32:39, 1 Chronicles 16:25-26, 2 Samuel
7:22 (1 Chron. 17:20), Psalm 86:10, Isaiah 43:10, 44:6-8, 44:24,
45:5-6, 46:9, John 17:3, 1 Corinthians 8:4-6 and so on and so on.
Mormonism teaches that there are many, many Gods, while God denies any
such thing (Isaiah 44:8). Hence, Mormonism is off track right from the
start. This is the most basic revelation of God, and when one misses
it, nothing after that will make any sense. It is true that the Father
is not the Son nor is the Son the Father. As far as the above statement
reflects this, it is true. However, the Mormon viewpoint is that the
Father and Son are two separate and distinct individuals, and hence two
separate and distinct gods! (see Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
page 370). This is completely contradicted by the Bible, and is based
upon the error of polytheism. Mormons cannot understand the Christian
doctrine of the Trinity because they reject the Bible's teaching of
monotheism (one God).

   #11. The true church must teach that God and Jesus Christ have
bodies of flesh and bone. Luke 24:36-39 and Acts 1:9-11.

   Here the Mormons take two references to the fact that Jesus Christ
became flesh (John 1:14) and infer from them that God the Father also
has a body of flesh and bone. What does God say about this? "You
thought that I was just like you; I will reprove you, and state the
case in order before your eyes" (Psalm 50:21, NASB). "...for I am God,
and not man, the Holy One in the midst of thee..." (Hosea 11:9). "God
is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he
should repent." (Numbers 23:19). Instead, Jesus taught that God was
spirit (John 4:24). God is not limited to time and space as we are, but
rather is eternal (Psalm 90:2), unchanging (Malachi 3:6), and
omnipresent (Jeremiah 23:24, 2 Chronicles 6:18). What Mormons need to
realize is that the gospel is not that man can become God, but that God
became a man.

   #12. The officers must be called by God. Hebrews 5:4, Exodus 28:1,
Exodus 40:13-16.

   As the Old Testament passages here quoted have little to do with the
New Testament Church, we will look at Hebrews 5:4 (which also has
little to do with the subject at hand, but its closer than the
others!). First, we agree that the leaders of the church should be
called by God, and, in the Christian church, they are. However, again
the Latter-day Saints are seen to be adding to what is written. The
Mormons interpret this within their framework of "priesthood
authority," again leading to error. It might be asked whether their
Aaronic priests are called in the same way as was Aaron? A quick look
at Exodus chapter 29 and Leviticus chapter 8 will reveal that they
certainly are not!

   #13. The true church must claim revelation from God. Amos 3:7.

   This position can only be maintained by ignoring what comes after
Amos 3:7. Luke 16:16 says "The law and the prophets were until John;
since that time the kingdom of God is preached..." The New Testament
presents a very different picture. Jesus Christ, the final and complete
revelation of God (Hebrews 1:1-3) has made "further revelation"
obsolete and unnecessary. To claim to have such a "revelation" is to
say that Jesus really wasn't what and who He said He was, and who the
Bible describes Him as being. In actuality, it is the simple fact that
Mormonism's teachings cannot be supported from the Bible that drives
the leadership to find another source of authority. Everything that has
ever claimed to be "further revelation" has failed the test of
Scripture, including the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and
the Pearl of Great Price.

   #14. The true church must be a missionary church. Matthew 28:19-20.

   We heartily agree at this point, and are forced to ask why it is
that the Mormon Church has thrived on taking people from other churches
rather than trailblazing into unknown areas, as the Christian church
has done for hundreds of years?

   #15. The true church must be a restored church. Acts 3:19-20.

   An examination of the text chosen to represent this claim will show
just how weak this argument is. Acts chapter 3 is not in any way
discussing the Church. This is seen in two ways. First, verse 21 says
that the "restitution of all things" was "spoken by the mouth of all
his holy prophets since the world began." As Paul points out in
Colossians 1:25- 27, the mystery of the church was not made known to
the past ages and generations (see also 1 Peter 1:10-12), hence this
certainly is not talking about the church. Second, the prophets spoke
of the restoration of Israel to its own land, and the restoration of
the theocracy under David's Son. This is what Peter is discussing in
Acts 3. Besides all of this, we must ask when it was that Christ
returned, as verse 19 says this would happen at the "restitution of all
things." As we pointed out, the true church founded by Christ did not
fail (see #2-4 above).

   #16. The true church must practice baptism for the dead. 1
Corinthians 15-16 and 29.

   The Christian church had never practiced baptism for the dead in the
sense that the LDS Church wants us to believe. They are forced to take
1 Corinthians 15:29 out of its context and force their own peculiar
meaning on it. First, the Bible does not teach that baptism saves
anyone (even 1 Peter 3:21, upon close examination, does not do so),
hence it certainly would not be needed to "redeem the dead" as Mormons
put it. 1 Corinthians 15:29 is found in the "resurrection chapter." The
needed clue to its meaning is found in the language in which it was
originally written, that being Greek. The word "for" is the Greek term
huper. It refers to the taking of someone's place, or to substitution.
Baptism "for" the dead is not baptism of a living person in behalf of
or for the benefit of a dead person, but rather the immersion of a
living person in the place of or into the former position of a now
deceased person. It is the baptism of a new convert who takes the place
in the church of one who has died. The baptism of a young child, for
example, the day after an elderly saint of the Lord has passed away
could be viewed as the younger person coming to "fill" the position of
the person who has gone home to be with the Lord. This vein of thinking
is carried on in the context when Paul says in the next verse, "Why are
we also in danger every hour?" (NASB). Being a Christian in those days
was a dangerous business. Paul's whole point in the entire passage has
to do with the fact that if the dead are not raised (v. 12) there is
absolutely no point in bringing new converts into this dangerous
position through baptism when there is no future life to promise them,
no reward in the future for their faithfulness. Why not just let
everyone die off without filling their positions in the church, since,
if there is no resurrection, "we are of all men most to be pitied" (v.
19). Belief in baptizing the living to somehow help in saving the dead
demonstrates a complete misunderstanding of the New Testament teaching
concerning the nature, extent, and purpose of salvation.

   #17. By their fruits ye shall know them. Matthew 7:20.

   Indeed, but that is not the only test we are given, thankfully. We
know people of many religions, and many of them are kind, decent,
moral, loving people. Does this mean that they are all right? Of course
not. At the same time, we know people of many different religions that
are mean, nasty, unloving, hateful, dishonest, etc. and etc. Does that
mean those religions are false? No, it doesn't. We know Mormons that
fit in both the above categories. Does this prove Mormonism true or
false? Neither. Instead, we are given other tests to utilize. The main
one is, what do you teach concerning Jesus Christ (e.g., Colossians
2:8-9)? The Mormon Church teaches that Jesus is the spirit brother of
Lucifer (see, for example, Ensign, June 1986, page 25). This is
completely untrue, as the Bible says Jesus created all things (John
1:3, Colossians 1:16-17), which would include Lucifer (Ezekiel
28:13-15). Hence, how can the Creator be the spirit-brother of his
creation? Such is nonsense. The fruit of this teaching is falsehood
concerning the person of Jesus Christ. Again, even using the test
prescribed by the LDS Church, we find Mormonism wanting.

   This little card ends with, "Why are these things important? HEBREWS
13:8." Yes, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today and forever. How
different from the Mormon teaching that God was once a man who evolved
(or progressed) to Godhood! Much more important than this is the dire
warning of the Bible: "But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach
any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you,
let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, If any man
preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be
accursed." (Galatians 1:8-9). Those are serious words indeed, and the
LDS people would do well to heed them.

   James White
CUL:The Mountian Meadows Massacre  by Walter Martin

from "The Kingdom of the Cults"

We cannot, of course, discuss the history of the Mormons under Brigham 
Young in great detail because that would easily necessitate a full 
volume by itself, but suffice it to say that Smith gave the movement
its initial thrust and Brigham Young supplied the needed momentum
necessary to establish it as a bona fide religion.  Young himself was 
a character of many facets, and one cannot understand the theology of 
Mormonism without understanding the tremendous influence exercised 
upon it by the person of "prophet" Young and his teachings.  Smith and 
Young, in company with the pronouncements of the succeeding 
presidents, have made Mormon theology what it is, and apart from 
Brigham Young, Mormonism cannot be thoroughly understood. 

Young was a man of indomitable courage, possessed of a canny nature, 
but given of fits of ruthlessness now conveniently forgotten by Mormon 
historians.  One such evidence of his determination to control Utah 
was the order which he gave to massacre over 100 non-Mormon immigrants 
in what has now become known as the infamous Mountain Meadows 
Massacre.  In this particular instance, for reasons known only to 
himself, Young entrusted to Bishop John D. Lee in 1857 the task of 
annihilating a wagon train of virtually helpless immigrants.  This, 
Bishop Lee did faithfully, and 20 years later he was imprisoned, 
tried, convicted and excuted by the government of the United States 
for this vicious, totalitarian action. 

In his momorable book, the confessions of John D. Lee, a consistent 
sore spot in the Mormon scheme of historical "reconstruction," Lee 
confessed to his part in the infamous doings, but he swore that he 
acted upon the order of Brigham Young.  However, the testimony of Lee 
and of some of his lieutenants and others connected with the massacre 
indicates beyond question that Young ordered and sanctioned the 
action.  As we further study Mormon theology, it will become apparent 
that this was not at all beyond the limits of Young's character; he 
was the law in Utah; and as it has been so wisely observed, "power 
corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely." 

Mormonism today, then, is a far cry from quite a number of the 
principles and practices of its early founders.  To be sure, it 
remains faithful to their basic tenets, but, as in the case of 
polygamy, when those tenets come in conflict with government statutes 
or political influence, the latter-day saints have wisely chosen to 
ignore (the word commonly used is "re-interpret") the counsels of 
their two chief prophets.  The history of the mormons is a vast and 
complex subject; it is a veritable labyrinth of books, testimonies, 
affidavits, photographs, hearsay and opinions, and it is only after 
the most careful analysis of the contemporary evidence that a picture 
emerges consistent with verifiable facts.  For the average faithful 
Mormon, one can but have sympathy and regard.  He is, by and large, 
honest, industrious, thrifty and zealous in both the proclamation and 
promulgation of his beliefs.  One only regrets that he has accepted at 
face value a carefully edited "history" of the origin and doctrinal 
development of his religion instead of examining the excellent sources 
which not only contradict but irrefutably prove the falsity of what is 
most certainly a magnificent reconstructed history.  It is to be hoped 
that as we further study the unfolding drama of Mormon doctrine, and 
the Mormonism and the pitfalls which most certainly exist in taking at 
face value the gospel according to Joseph Smith and Brigham Young.  
The verdict of history, then, is overwhelmingly against the Mormon 
version, particularly where Smith and Young are concerned; and there 
is a vast amount of documentation all but a few Mormons seem content 
to ignore, but the facts themselves remain too well verified to be 
ignored. 
CUL:Testimonals to Joseph Smith's heresies  by Walter Martin

Excerpted from "Kindom of the Cults" 
by Dr. Walter Martin, pg. 175.

One of the most interesting statements concerning the early life  
of the Smith family and of Joseph, Jr., Was obtained by E.D. Howe, a  
contemporary of Smith's, who did tremendous research during the  
lifetime of Joseph which has never been successfully impugned by any  
Mormon historians.  Smith himself never dared to answer Howe's  
charges, though they were well known to him, so great was the weight  
of contemporary evidence.      
 
Mr. Howe obtained a statement signed by sixty-two residents of  
Palmyra, New York, one that cannot be ignored by any serious student  
of Mormonism:  
 
"We, the undersigned, have been acquainted with the Smith family, for a
number of years, while they resided near this place, and  we have no
hesitation in saying, that we consider them destitute of that moral
character, particularly famous for visionary projects, spent much of
their time in diggings for money which they pretended was hid in the
earth: and to this day, large excavations may be seen in the earth, not
far from their residence, where they used to spend their time digging
for hidden treasures.  Joseph Smith, senior, and his son Joseph, were
in particular, considered entirely destitute of moral character, and
addicted to vicious habits"  
- (Mormonism Unveiled, Zanesville, Ohio, 1834, p. 260).      
 
Some persons reading this may feel that it is unfair to quote only one
side of the story: what about those who are favorable to the Mormons,
they will ask.  In answer to this, the amazing fact is that there
exists no contemporary pro-Mormon statements from reliable and informed
sources who knew the Smith family and Joseph intimately.   It has only
been the over-wise Mormon historians, utilizing hindsight over a
hundred-year period, who have been able to even seriously challenge the
evidence of the neighbors, Joseph's father-in-law, and many ex-Mormons
who knew that was going on and went on record with the  evidence not
even Mormon historians have bothered seriously to dispute.

                        THE NATURE OF GOD

   There is but ONE GOD. The BIBLE states that there has been, and
presently is, and always will be only ONE GOD. History and the BIBLE
show that the Jewish people always believed in ONE GOD of the
UNIVERSE. The Jewish nation; However, was lured, time and time again,
into going after "other gods" that were worshipped by the people
surrounding Israel. That was the sin GOD hated and punished them for
practicing. (Jeremiah 2:11 11:9-13 19:13)

   In direct contrast, MORMONISM has a basic belief in many gods. The
Father, Son and Holy Ghost (in Mormonism) are three separate gods.
There were gods before them and will be gods to follow: "If we should
take a million worlds like this and number their particles, we should
find that there are more gods than there are particles of matter in
those worlds." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 2, page 345 [Feb 1855] Orson
Pratt

   "Many men say there is one God; the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Spirit are only one God. I say that is a strange God, anyhow - Three
in one and one in three. It is a curious organization ... all are to
be crammed into one God, according to sectarianism. It would make the
biggest God in all the world ... he would be a giant or a monster."
TEACHING OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 372; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
Vol 6, page 476

   "In the beginning, the head of the Gods called a council of the
Gods, and they came together and concocted a plan to create the world
and people it." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, JOSEPH SMITH, Vol 6, page 5;
HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 308

   Mormons will say they worship only one God; But, whether they
worship them or not, believing in the valid existence of many gods --
of the same authority and reality of the one God -- makes you a
polytheist!

   False Prophets have always led the people of history (and the
current peoples of the earth) to go after other gods (Deuteronomy 13:1
to 13). God's strongest wrath was then and is now upon people who
worship or believe in other gods (Jeremiah 16:10 to 13 and 22:8 & 9).

   Mormonism teaches that "Father God" is married and has many wives:
"In the heaven where our spirits were born, there are many Gods, each
of whom has his own wife or wives, which were given to him previous to
his redemption while yet in his mortal state." THE SEER, Orson Pratt,
page 37

   Look up John 10:34 used by Mormons to justify a belief in "many
Gods". Jesus, there, is quoting Psalm 82 in which the judges were
referred to as "gods" -- but were wicked and unjust and "die like all
men".

   Anytime the word "gods" occur in the BIBLE it must be verified in
context as referring to the idols, satanic princes or counterfeit gods
- (Isaiah 41:23 and 24 and 45:20).

   IN CONTRAST The BIBLE states throughout there is but ONE GOD! Look
up these verses:

   ISAIAH 43:10-11  "Before me NO god was formed, nor after"

    44:6-8
 "I am the first and the last, beside me no other"

    45:5-6
 "I am the Lord, and there is no other"

    45:18-22  "HE created the heavens and earth-there is no other"

   DEUT 6:4
"Hear O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord"

    32:39
  "There is no god beside me"

   PSALM  86:10
  "Thou alone art God"

   MARK 12:29 
 "Jesus said, the Lord our God is one; no other"

   GAL   3:20
  "God is one"

   JAMES 2:19
  "You believe God is one - you do well"

   EPH 4:5-6
 "One God and Father of us all"

   I COR 8:4-6
 "There is no god but me"

   GOD IS INFINITE: The BIBLE states that God has always been the same
from all time in eternity past and does not change. In direct
opposition to this, the Mormon Church has the basic belief that God
was once a man, with many gods before Him and many gods to come after
Him. They further believe that God is progressing to higher levels of
power and ability: "God himself was once as we are now, and is an
exalted Man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens ... it is necessary
that we should understand the character and being of God, and how He
came to be so; for I am going to tell you how God came to be God. We
have imagined and supposed that God was God from all eternity. I will
refute that idea, and will take away the veil, so that you may see ...
he was once a man like us; yea, that God himself the Father of us all,
dwelt on an earth the same as Jesus Christ did. "TEACHINGS OF THE
PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 345; JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES Vol 6, page 3;
HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 305

    "As man is, God once was; as
God is, man may become." THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES, Milton R.
Hunter, pages 105 & 106

   "Our Eternal Father has attained His position of exaltation and
Godhood by obedience to the great law of progression ... was once a
mortal man who passed through a school of earth-life similar to that
which we are now passing." THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES, Milton R.
Hunter, pages 12 & 104

   "Through modern revelations we learn that the universe is filled
with vast numbers of intelligences, and we further learn that Elohim
is God simply because all of these intelligences honor and sustain him
as such --- But God acquired the honor and sustaining influence of
'all things'. It follows as a corrolary that if He should ever do
anything to violate the confidence of 'sense of justice' of these
intelligences, they would promptly withdraw their support, and the
'power' of God would disintegrate --- He would cease to be God. Our
Heavenly Father can do only those things which the intelligences under
Him are voluntarily willing to support Him in accomplishing." THE
FIRST 2000 YEARS, W. Cleon Skousen *,pages 355,356 *=FREEMEN INSTITUTE
PRESIDENT & B.Y.U. Professor

   Mormonism teaches that God is confined to a body of flesh and
bones. He is at a particular place at a particular time. The Mormon
"god" is a SMALL "god". You can have tremendous faith in a god - BUT,
if that god is not THE GOD, then all that tremendous faith is
meaningless. Elijah once challenged the priests of "another god" to
start a fire, and the "god" who was able to do so would be recognized
as THE GOD. The priests for this wooden idol, with great faith and
efforts prayed and prayed to their god to bring down fire to prove his
godhood. Elijah even became somewhat sarcastic when he asked a
rhetorical question of "Maybe your god is asleep? Maybe you should cry
out louder to wake him up?". After all these efforts, nothing
happened! It didn't matter if the priest and believers of that "god"
had a great faith because the OBJECT of that faith was incapable of
fulfilling the promise of that faith. The ONE and TRUE GOD fulfills
our prayers.

   "If God possesses a form, that form is of necessity of definite
proportions, and therefore of limited extension and space. It is
impossible for Him to occupy at one time more than one space of such
limits." ARTICLES OF FAITH, James E. Talmage, pages 42 and 43

   "I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all
description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me,
calling me by name and said, pointing to the other -'This is my
Beloved Son. Hear Him!" PEARL OF GREAT PRICE, Joseph Smith 2:17

   "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's.
DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, 130, v:22

   "God himself is increasing in knowledge, power, and dominion and
will do so, worlds without end." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Prophet
Wilford Woodruff, Vol 6, Pg 120

   "We were begotten by our Father in heaven; the person of our Father
in Heaven was begotten on a previous heavenly world by His Father; and
again, He was begotten by still a more ancient Father ...." THE SEER,
Orson Pratt, Page 132

   The BIBLE states throughout that GOD IS INFINITE! We ask that you
look up these proofs:

   II CHRONICLES 6:18  "Heaven and the Heaven of Heavens cannot
  contain thee."

   PSALM 41:13 (90:2)  "God is from everlasting to everlasting"

   PSALM 102:25-27
  "created heavens, always the same without end"

   PSALM 139:4-8
 "Omniscient and Omnipresent"

   JEREMIAH 23:24
"I fill heaven and earth"

   HOSEA 11:9
 "I am God, and not man"

   MALACHI 4:39
  "I do not change"

   NEHEMIAH 9:6
  "made Heaven, Heaven of Heavens and all their host"

   PROVERBS 15:3
 "His eyes in every place"

   ACTS 17:27
 "He is not far from each of us"

   JOHN 4:24
  "God is Spirit"

   LUKE 24:39
 "A Spirit has not flesh and bones"

   HEBREWS 4:13
  "All things opened unto His eyes"

   I JOHN 4:12
"No man has seen God at any time"

   I TIMOTHY 6:15
"No man has seen, nor can see ..."

   JOHN 1:18
  "No man has seen God at any time"

   EXODUS 33:20
  "There shall be no man see me and live"

   It is clear that the BIBLE refutes the Mormon church's claims and
the claims of its prophets and leaders in a most specific manner.

   Brigham Young, second Prophet and President of the Mormon Church
taught that ADAM was "our Father and our God...": "When our father
Adam came into the Garden of Eden, he came into it with a celestial
body, and brought Eve, one of his wives, with him ... He is our Father
and our God, and the only God with whom we have to do ... When the
Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, the Father had begotten Him in
His own likeness. He was not begotten by the Holy Ghost. And who is
the Father? He is the first of the human family ...." JOURNAL OF
DISCOURSES, Vol 1, page 50, April 9,1852

   "I have learned by experience that there is but one God that
pertains to this people, and He is the God that pertains to this earth
- the first man. That first man sent His own Son to redeem the world
..." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 4, pg 1, June 29, 1856 Prophet &
President Heber C. Kimball

   "How much unbelief exist in the minds of the Latter-Day Saints in
regard to a particular doctrine which I revealed to them, and which
God revealed to me -- namely, that Adam is our Father and our God ...
Our Father, Adam helped to make this earth, it was created expressly
for him ... He brought one of his wives with him, and she was called
Eve ... Our Father Adam is the man who stands at the gate and holds
the keys of everlasting life and salvation to all his children.."
DESERET NEWS, June 18,1873: Discourse by Prophet and President Brigham
Young

   Today, the Mormon Church adamantly denies the "ADAM-GOD" doctrine
taught, and as seen above, and affirmed by "Prophet" Brigham Young.
There is overwhelming evidence that he did teach, believed and
strongly defended this belief. By any, reasonable, interpretation of
the BIBLE, Brigham Young must be classified as a FALSE PROPHET (see
Deuteronomy 13:1 to 10 and 18:20 to 22 - also Jeremiah 23:16 to 17)
ADAM is not OUR god and NEVER will be!

   The BIBLE states: "... then the Lord God formed man of dust from
the earth, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man
became a living being." (Genesis 2:7)

   GOD is ONE and ETERNALLY the same. Creator of the Heavens and the
Earth ... All powerful, all knowing, all present. Despite the fact
that HE is INFINITE, he knows every hair on our heads and has a plan
for each of our lives (John 3:16 & 10:10). It is far better to have a
small faith in THE TRUE GOD of the universe than to have a great faith
in a small, counterfeit god.

   One should keep in mind that faith in a "counterfeit" god is really
no more than a misplaced faith in the false prophet and the teaching
of a false Prophet. Remember - a counterfeit - to be called a
counterfeit - must "resemble" the GENUINE item. If there are many
"counterfeit" gods, then there must be a REAL GOD, and HE is found in
the scriptures and in everything that surrounds us.

   Computers for Christ - San Jose

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon  

                      THE REAL HOLY SPIRIT

   In Mormonism the "Holy Ghost" is a personage, or a god, but the
"Holy Spirit" is an impersonal force. The Mormons refer to verses that
the Holy Spirit is symbolized by  oil, fire and water and show that
these are "impersonal". The Bible refers to the Father and the Son as
"bread of life", "living water" and other "impersonal" terms. Again,
we must look at the context.

   In John 16:7, our Lord is placing His emphasis on His going away
and the Holy Spirit's being sent by the Father to replace our Lord
himself. This change (or replacement), Jesus says, would be beneficial
for His disciples. AN IMPERSONAL FORCE COULD HARDLY IMPROVE ON THE
PERSONAL PRESENCE OF OUR LORD, JESUS CHRIST!

   The word in Hebrew and the word in Greek for SPIRIT and GHOST both
mean the same, "breath or wind" and the "translators" of the King
James Bible noted that the Greek word denoted a neuter gender and
mistranslated to be an "IT", but they did utilize the word Ghost and
Spirit and interchanged them on many occassions.

   The words as translated are from only ONE word in Hebrew and ONE
word in Greek - therefore there are NOT two words for  SPIRIT and
GHOST - only ONE. Now, let's look at this ONE entity called the HOLY
SPIRIT. In John 16:13 and 14 we see our Lord, Jesus telling us this
about the Holy Spirit, "HE shall not speak of HIMSELF ... HE shall
glorify me ... HE shall receive of mine ....". NOTE that our LORD
gives PERSONALITY to the Spirit. Otherwise our Lord would have used
the term that Mormons use "IT".

   Jesus repeatedly (John  16:7-15) uses the MASCULINE PERSONAL
pronoun "He" when referring to the Spirit. Jesus used the term clearly
to tell us that the Spirit had personality and intimacy.

   Ananias was struck dead for lying to the HOLY SPIRIT (Acts 5:3).
You cannot lie to an impersonal force! It would be like walking up to
a window box fan, turning it on and facing its "force" and then
telling lie after lie to it  - IT WOULD NOT CARE THE SLIGHTEST, WOULD
IT? Now, you look at Ananias and, if you are not a complete idiot, you
would not repeat his behavior, now would you? The Holy Spirit and the
Holy Ghost are not two different items mentioned in the Bible. There
is only one entity referred to as both HOLY GHOST and HOLY SPIRIT.

   The Holy Spirit is a person. The Spirit may be "grieved" (Ephesians
4:30) and "sinned against" by UNFORGIVABLE blasphemy (Mark 3:29). None
of these things are possible for an "impersonal force".

The  Holy Ghost does things which only a person COULD do.

He  SPEAKS:
   "The Spirit said unto Philip, 'Go near'" (Acts 8:29)

He STRIVES:
   "My Spirit shall not strive with man forever" (Genesis 6:3)
- "The  Spirit also helpeth our infirmity ... [and] MAKETH
INTERCESSION for us." (Romans 8:26)

He REVEALS, SEARCHES, and KNOWS:
   "But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the Spirit
searcheth all things ... the things of God knoweth no man but the
Spirit of God" (I Corinthians 2:10,11).

   Other verses can be shown in which the Spirit IDENTIFIES with
believers (Acts 15:28), The Spirit is ETERNAL (Hebrews 9:14),
OMNIPRESENT (Psalm 139:7-10), DOES GOD'S WORK (Genesis 1:2), INVOLVED
IN REGENERATION (John 3:8), participates in the RESURRECTION (Romans
8:11).

   Paul identifies the Spirit as the speaker to Isaiah. Acts 28:25-26
and Isaiah 6:8,9. An impersonal force does not counsel, speak, feel,
or anything resembling personality. The HOLY SPIRIT is a person - one
of the THREE ENTITIES of the ONE TRUE GOD.

Computers For Christ - San Jose

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                MORMONISM'S "SALVATION BY WORKS"
                             vs.
               SALVATION BY GRACE THROUGH CHRIST

   The entire BIBLE points in all directions to the cross.  Upon it
God's only begotten Son died that we might have eternal life from God.
Only through Christ can this separation be bridged.

   On the other hand, MORMONISM points in all directions to the "Law
of Eternal Progression".  We have seen that Mormon doctrine states
that God was once a man.  He progressed to become God.  The same law
states that man may become God!

   Let's go to the authorities of the church and hear what they have
said, first on the subject of man's pre-existence as a spirit in a
"spirit world" prior to taking a body here on earth:

           DID WE PRE-EXIST?

BRUCE R.  McCONKIE (Apostle); MORMON DOCTRINE, page 589

   "Pre-existence is the term commonly used to describe the pre-mortal
existence of the spirit children of God the Father ... All men and
women are in the similitude of the universal Father and Mother, and we
are literally the sons and daughters of Deity; as spirits they were
the offspring of celestial parentage ... Unless God the father was a
personal Being, He could not have begotten spirits in His image, and
if there had been no self-existent spirit element, there would have
been no substance from which those spirit bodies could have been
organized."

   The basis of the Mormon law of progression in Mormonism is that
"intelligences" are eternal.  On the other hand, God is not! He
started as a spirit child in another 'spirit world' long ago; entered
a body on another earth as a man; apparently was able to follow the
law of progression perfectly; after death He became God in the
'celestial kingdom' of that other earth; brought (or was given) many
wives; through sexual union in our spirit world had billions of spirit
children : The first was Jesus, the second Lucifer, the third and on
and on were to enter the earth as you and me.

   No organic difference in the parentage between us and Jesus and
Lucifer! We all have the same literal "Heavenly Father".  Note how
those in Mormonism generally refer to Him as "Heavenly Father" -- they
mean just that - LITERALLY!! Just remember that they could say also;
"Heavenly GRANDFATHER", "Heavenly Great-Grandfather", and so on ...!

MILTON R.  HUNTER (1st Council of 70); GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; pages
127-129 (1958)

   "In the first stage, man was an eternally existent being termed an
intelligence ...  The next realm where man dwelt was the spirit
world."

   According to Mormon concept eternally existing intelligences were
clothed with spirit bodies in the mansion of their eternal Father...
"numerous sons and daughters were begotten and born of heavenly
parents into that eternal family in the spirit world ... There ...
they were reared to maturity, becoming grown spirit men and women
prior to coming upon this earth ...  Following his stay in the spirit
world, man comes to earth in a probationary state ...  receives a
physical body and undergoes the experiences of mortality ..
Eventually; however, mortal death comes upon all. The eternal spirit
goes to the spirit world to wait resurrection and judgement ...  there
they shall be assigned to the glory that they have merited ...  Some
will receive celestial glory; others terrestrial, while those who are
recorded in the 'Lamb's Book of Life' will enter celestial glory.
There some of them will become angels and others priests and kings,
or, in other words, Gods."

   On page 12, Hunter states a basic "truth" of Mormonism, that God is
subordinate to the law of eternal progression.: "Our Eternal Father
has attained His position of exaltation and Godhood by obedience to
the great law of progression."

JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH; DOCTRINES OF SALVATION; Vol 1, pg 12

   "The intelligent part of man was never created but always existed.
That is true of each of us as well as it is of God, yet we are born
sons and daughters of God in the spirit and are destined to exist
forever.  Those who become like God will also be from eternity to
eternity."

   The BIBLE states explicitly that there are no intelligences
co-eternal or co-existent with God.  Anything that exists, other than
God, is a "thing".  COLOSSIANS 1:16-17 and JOHN 1:1-3 state that ONLY
Jesus is co-eternal with God as the "WORD WAS GOD" (John 1:1).  He is
before all "things" and created all "things". His creation did not
pre-exist Him! God knows the beginning and end of all things before
they exist.  There are several scriptures stating HE "knew" us before
we were born.  They do not imply we existed before we were born.

   "The burden of the word of the Lord of Israel, saith the Lord,
which stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundation of the
earth, and formeth the spirit of man within him." (ZECHARIAH 12:1)

         SALVATION BY GRACE VERSUS WORKS

   The BIBLE states over and over that we do not merit salvation
(eternal life in God's presence) by our own goodness and system of
good works from or for any organization.  You need only to study the
Old Testament and see the hopelessness of a system whereby man was to
live within God's laws with the system of prophets - temples - priests
and ordinances.  The purpose of Jesus coming to earth to die for us
was to make provision for our own inability to bridge this separation
of man from God and brought a new covenant.  If you choose Mormonism
as your plan of salvation, you have regressed to the old covenant of
the prophet, temple and ordinance which produce only "dead works" in
an attempt to obtain righteousness on your own.  If you trust the LDS
church and its prophets; here is what is said:

MILTON R.  HUNTER; THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; pg 115 JOSEPH F.
SMITH; TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH; pg 348

   "Thus all men who ascend to the glorious status of Godhood can do
so only by one method - by obedience to all the principals and
ordinances of the Gospel of Jesus Christ (another way of saying
"Mormonism")...  Men are saved no faster than they gain knowledge.
The Prophet Joseph described the process of going toward Godhood as
follows: When you climb a ladder, you must begin at the bottom, and
ascend step by step, until you arrive at the top; and so it is with
the principles of the Gospel - you must begin with the first, and go
on until you learn all of the principles of exaltation.  But it will
be a great while after you have passed through the veil before you
will have learned them."

JAMES E. TALMAGE; ARTICLES OF FAITH; pg 480

   "The sectarian dogma of justification by faith alone has exercised
an influence for evil."

II NEPHI 25:23 (BOOK OF MORMON)

   "For we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we
can do."

        WHAT THE MORMONS THINK OF CHRIST

LDS CHURCH TRACT; pg 32,46,47

   "Christians speak often of the blood of Christ and its cleansing
power.  Much that is believed and taught on this subject, however, is
utter nonsense and so palpably false that to believe it is to lose
one's salvation.  Many go so far, for instance, as to pretend, at
least, to believe that if we confess Christ with our lips and avow
that we accept Him as our personal Savior, we are thereby saved ...
And no man can pick the fruit of eternal life off the branches, as
these are tied to the vine, without accepting both Christ and His
prophets ...  If it had not been for Joseph Smith, the Prophet, the
perfect knowledge of Christ would not be had in the world in this day.
If it had not been for him and his mission there would be no legal
administrators now on earth to administer in the ordinances of
salvation."

BRUCE R.  McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; pgs 84 & 745

   "The second birth begins when men are legally baptized in water by
a legal administrator ...  Those who receive the Gospel (Mormon
Doctrine) and join the church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints
have power given them to become sons of God."

   (Compare to John 1:12 -- "But as many as received Him, to them gave
He power to become sons of God..")

BRUCE R. McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; pg 149

   "Those things which men are directed to do to attain peace in this
life and gain eternal life in the world to come are collectively
called the commandments."

BRUCE R.  McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; preface to 1966 Edition; pg 118

   "Man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge -- (See I
Corinthians 1:17,20-23,2:1-5) -- To gain salvation after baptism it is
necessary to keep the commandments of God and endure to the end ...
The most important things that any member of the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints ever does in this world are: 1.  To marry
the right person, in the right place, by the right authority (Mormon
Temple marriage); and 2.  to keep the covenant made in connection with
this holy and perfect order of matrimony - thus assuring the obedient
persons of an inheritance of exaltation in the celestial kingdom."

CHURCH NEWS-EDITORIAL; November 8,1975; page 16

   "There is only one way to become sanctified and perfected, and thus
prepared to live with God.  That is by obedience to His laws.  There
is no other way ...  When will we learn to obey him with all our
heart, mind and strength?

   (Compare with Luke 10:27 - "Thou shalt love the Love the Lord thy
God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy
strength, and with all thy mind....")

MILTON R.  HUNTER, GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; pgs 118-120

   "If men and women obey all the other laws of the gospel except that
of celestial marriage (Mormon Temple Marriage), they are appointed
angels ...."

BENNET; WHY I AM A MORMON; pg 170

   "Once we have been resurrected, it will be our own efforts, and not
Christ's sacrifice, that will be the deciding factor ... A man can be
saved only so fast as he gains knowledge of the laws of God." Prophets
...  temples ...  Obedience to the Law ... Aaronic Priest ..
Legalisms ...  Dependent on our own efforts and good works ...

   Sound familiar? Old Testament in a new wrapping? Wrapped in
Christian terminology? Mormonism calls the unsuspecting back under
what amounts to the old covenant.  If righteousness could be obtained,
earned or gained by our own efforts to be perfect under the law, there
would have been no need for a "NEW" covenant.  If all Christ's death
meant was to conquer death - to pay for Adam's sin as Mormonism
teaches - why are the following among the great number of God's words
declaring the TRUTH of the NEW COVENANT of salvation through Christ,
by faith, not works of the law.  Look up these scriptures and review
their full context:

        THE LAW AND WORKS DO NOT SAVE

JOHN 6:28,29,39,40 ...  What must we do to be doing the works of God?
This is the work of God that you believe in Him whom He sent.

ROMANS 3:21,22 ...  No one is justified by the works of the law.
Now righteousness of God is manifested apart from the Law.

ROMANS 4:13-16 ...  If it is adherents of the Law that are to be
heirs, then faith is NULL and the promise void.

ROMANS 7:4-6 ...  Died to the Law through the body of Christ.
Discharged from the law, dead to that which held us captive, so that
we serve not under the old written code but in new life of the Spirit.

ROMANS 8:1-4 ...  God has done what the law could not do!

ROMANS 9:30-32 ...  Israel who pursued righteousness based on the law
did not succeed.  WHY? They did not pursue it through faith, but as if
it were based on works.

ROMANS 10:1-4 ...  A zeal for God - but not enlightened.  Seeking to
establish their own righteousness.  Christ is the end of the law.
Romans 14:1-23 and Colossians 3:8-23 are clear refutations of the
point made by Joseph Smith in "Words of Wisdom" to not drink and eat
certain things is nothing more than MAN'S regulation and NOT from God.
Read and see what God said through the Apostle Paul!

GALATIANS 2:16 ...  Man is not justified by works of the law but is
through faith!

GALATIANS 2:19-21 ...  Died to the law, that I might live to God. I do
not nullify the Grace of God; for if righteousness were through the
law, then Christ is dead in vain.

GALATIANS 3:10 ...  As many as are under the works of the law are
under the curse!

GALATIANS 3:23-28 ...  Before faith came, we were under the law - our
schoolmaster (Custodian) until Christ came.  Now that faith is come,
we are no longer under a schoolmaster.

GALATIANS 5:18 ...  If led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.

II TIMOTHY 1:8-10 ...  Who saved us, not according to our works, but
according to His own purpose and grace.

TITUS 3:3-9 ...  He saved us, not by works of righteousness which we
have done, but according to His mercy.  Being justified by grace.

          HOW IS MAN (or WE ) SAVED ?

   If salvation is not by works of our own under the law and
ordinances, HOW IS MAN SAVED? Just a few of the scriptures God has
given us are:

JOHN 3:1-18 ...  YOU MUST BE BORN AGAIN! In context Jesus, Himself,
explains that, not only do we have a natural birth (Flesh) but a
spiritual birth! "Whosoever believeth in Him shall not perish but have
everlasting life (ETERNAL)!

ROMANS 5:1-11 ...  Christ died for us, sinners, who are now justified
by His blood.  We are reconciled through Him.

ROMANS 5:15-17 ...  The free gift of righteousness by the grace of
God.

ROMANS 10:9-17 ...  Confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe
in your heart God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved.

GALATIANS 2:16-21 ...  We are justified by faith.  Our old nature is
crucified with Christ; Christ now lives in us; we live by faith ---
not the law!

EPHESIANS 2:8-10 ...  "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and
that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: Not of works, lest any
man should boast.  For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus
unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in
them."

   Works have nothing to do with our justifying eternal life. The
Mormon will be quick to point out James 2:17 - "Even so faith, if it
hath not works, is dead, being alone." AMEN! That is not denying
salvation by faith.  What it is saying is this: "You say you are
saved? Saving faith will naturally flow into a life that will show
evidence of it.  Your 'works' will testify of your faith.  If none,
there is reason to question whether there really was a saving faith to
start with." To quote Ed Decker in his tract "To Moroni with Love";
You do not bark to become a dog nor "baa" to become a sheep.  You bark
because you are a dog or "baa" because you are a sheep! Christians,
when born-again and indwelt by the Holy Spirit, have a never ending
desire to follow the Lord Jesus in their daily life behavior.  "Works"
is not an appropriate name as it suggests payment after the work has
been done.  Christ made the payment IN FULL for our sins by His blood
for us; if only we REPENT of our sins and ACCEPT Him by faith.  It is
available only through God's grace for an eternal life.

I JOHN 1:7 ...  Blood of Jesus cleanseth us from all sin.

HEBREW 9:23-28,10:10-18 ...  Jesus was the sacrifice, once, to perfect
forever those who are sanctified.

ROMANS 5:6-11 ...  We are reconciled by His blood.

ISAIAH 53:6-11 & I CORINTHIANS 5:17-21 ...  Our iniquity was laid on
Jesus; to die for us; that we might be made the righteousness of God
in Him.

I PETER 2:24 ...  "Who his own self bare our sins in His own body on
the tree, that we, being dead to sins should live unto righteousness:
By whose stripes ye are healed."

   You will never (Well, We won't say never because God may have His
plan for their salvation that We are not aware of at this moment) see
a cross on a Mormon structure.  They will say call it a "graven
image"; yet "Moroni" stands on top of their temples.  Moroni didn't
die for them.  Joseph Smith, Jr.  didn't die for them.  The church
didn't die for them.  JESUS DIED FOR THEM, if they would only cling to
His cross and reach out to claim His blood for their sins.  They're
told they can earn their own righteousness based on the law of the
church which is based on "prophets, seers and revelators" proven -TIME
AND AGAIN- to be false.  Wouldn't you rather lay your eternal life in
the hands of the ETERNAL GOD; the SON who, personally, died for you -
than, say, a "prophet" in Salt Lake City?

   Our prayer is that this comparison of the Bible vs: the LDS Mormon
church will show you the LIGHT of CHRIST.

Computers For Christ - San Jose

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

        DO THE NAG HAMMADI WRITING AND DEAD SEA SCROLLS
                        CONFIRM MORMONISM
                               or
                  IS EINAR ERICKSON CONFUSED ?

   In recent years, Mormon lecturer, Einar C. Erickson, has given
numerous talks to Mormon church groups concerning the Dead Sea
Scrolls, Nag Hammadi writings, Mandean Ginza and related Middle East
finds. These lectures have been taped and widely distributed for use
in converting the uninformed to Mormonism. Mr Erickson states that the
writings discovered in the vicinity of Nag Hammadi, Egypt, are one of
the greatest confirmations of the "truthfulness" of the Mormon church
that anyone would find anywhere.

   On one of his tapes, Mr. Erickson boldly declares that: "These
documents and others leave without doubt evidence positive even on the
best rules of evidence that an attorney might be able to assemble,
that this gospel [i.e. the Mormon gospel] is true. You get no credit
for faith anymore." Mr. Erickson attempts to convince his listeners
that the writers of the Nag Hammadi were the true Christians, (based
upon his allegation of their similarity to Mormonism) and that all
others had slipped off into apostasy.

   However; the Nag Hammadi writings are of "Gnostic" origin which
were written during the first to fourth century A.D. The Gnostic
heretics did cherish both the Old and New testament Scripture, but
re-interpreted them in terms of a mythological Gnostic Redeemer.
Gnosticism gave rise to the writings of a number of totally spurious
apocalyptic books, false gospels and epistles that incorporated their
own mysticism.

    Gnosticism was a movement that vigorously contended with Orthodox
Christianity for supremacy. Writings by the early Church Fathers show
how widespread and influential Gnosticism was; and it was combatted as
a lethal threat to the proclamation of the Gospel. The bishops pointed
out the great gulf between Biblical Christianity and Gnosticism, even
though the Gnostics made use of Biblical text. It is obvious that
Paul, the Apostle, knew of the false ideas of Gnosticism, and spoke
out against such doctrines several times in the Scriptures.

   The Gnostics believed in the supreme being as an undescribable
God. He is invisible, incomprehensible, and dwells unbegotten in
eternal peace. Some names used to describe God and to stress His
transcendence were "Father of All", "The Unapproachable God", "The
Unknowable". Such a God could not possibly have direct contact with
the material world; therefore, He does so through intermediates, each
one answerable to the other. Each intermediate in descending order is
less divine and more earthy as the chain nears the material world.

   Mr. Erickson spellbinds his listeners when he tells them that the
Nag Hammadi writings confirm the Mormon doctrine of the Heavenly
Mother! What he fails to tell them is that this Mother God of the Nag
Hammadi is the "Holy Spirit." Certainly this is in direct conflict
with the Mormon concept of a Mother God, because in Mormon doctrine,
the Holy Spirit is a male. The supreme being has a female counterpart
which emanates from Him. She is known as "Mother of All" or "The Holy
Spirit."

   Other emanations that come forth from the Supreme Being in pairs
are called AEONS; the lowest Aeon being "Sophia Akhamoth", she was so
full of passion to understand or know God that she fell and was placed
outside the Pleroma, God's heavenly dwelling. Because of her desire,
she becomes fertile with a formless monster. This monster (Yaldabaoth,
Samael or SATAN) is the Demiurge or inferior god who created this
material world and brought forth man upon it.

   According to the Gnostic, all matter is evil; therefore, only an
inferior being could have created it. Satan is the creator-god of this
earth and of man, and is an evil god. To the Gnostics, Satan is
Jehovah of the Old Testament! After Jehovah (Satan) creates man and
breathes life into him, he creates Eve. The demonic forces see the
beauty of Eve, and proceed to rape her. Through this act, she
conceives Cain and Abel.

   Mr. Erickson often refers to the Hypostasis of the Archons of the
Nag Hammadi and being direct parallel to the Garden of Eden scene of
the Mormon Temple Ceremony. However, he fails to inform his listeners
that the Hypostasis of the Archeons tells of the demons raping Eve!
Nor does he point out that the serpent in the garden is really the
Holy Spirit coming to give Adam and Eve the "true knowledge." He
neglects to mention to his listeners that the "god" who comes into the
garden to ask Adam and Eve what they have done is not the "Heavenly
Father" but is Satan the arrogant Archon, the evil god. In this
instance, Mr. Erickson is, at best, mistaken about the facts -- a
fault which reappears throughout his lectures and tapes.

   The authors of the Nag Hammadi writings taught a form of re-
incarnation, and that marriage was evil, because it is of the earth.
They believed the begetting of children was from Satan, since it
merely increases the number subjected to the evil angels. Resurrection
of the flesh is denied by these Gnostics, since earthly flesh is in
itself evil, and can have no part in the spiritual scheme of God. All
of these concepts are not confirmations of Mormon doctrine, but are
direct contradictions of it!

   Mr. Erickson, looking elsewhere in the Middle East for "proof,"
tells his audiences that the writings of the Mandaeans of Iraq and
Iran are (also) a confirmation of Mormonism. His "evidence" for this
is that they speak of baptism for the dead, baptism by immersion,
priesthood and baptize in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy
Ghost. What he fails to mention to them is: according to the
Mandaeans, Jesus was a rebel and a heretic who led men astray by
betraying secret doctrine and making religion easier. The Mandaean
sacred book tells of how Jesus perverted the Scriptures, and that
Jesus told the Jews that He was the Father, the Son and the Holy
Ghost. Furthermore, the Mandaean book accuses Jesus perverting baptism
by baptizing in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost.

   The Mandaeans were baptized many times throughout their lives.
They baptized infants; and if an infant died before or during this
baptism, a clay or dough image was made which they then baptized in
proxy for that infant. Proxy baptism was also done for an adult who
died before getting his last minute washings before death. In this
case, an individual that looked like the deceased was baptized in
proxy for the dead person.

   The Mandaeans also had a ceremony of "eating for the dead" to give
the deceased nourishment for his travels to the heavenly spheres. The
Mormon people do not baptize infants, do not eat for the dead, nor do
they have last minute washing rituals before death as the Mandaeans
did. The Mormon proxy baptisms have less in common with the Mandaean
baptisms than they do with Catholic infant baptisms, last rites
ritual, and prayers for the dead. Clearly, the Mandaean concepts of
Jesus and baptism are in no way similar to Mormon doctrine.

   Those holding the Mandaean priesthood had to have a clean family
history for a number of generations, and meet strict physical and
mental qualifications. They had to be without the slightest physical
blemish, and be of pure Mandaean blood. A man who was circumcised,
impotent, or a eunuch could not be a priest for the body must be
sound, pure, and perfect. If a man was already a priest and he
received an injury which destroyed his manhood or robbed him of a
limb, he could no longer officiate as a priest. There are no such
restrictions within the Mormon priesthoods. The only things in common
with the Mormon priesthoods and baptism and that of the Mandaean are
the very words themselves!

   Mr. Erickson makes false claims about the Dead Sea Scrolls
community, as well. He states that those at Qumran baptized at the age
of eight, just as the Mormons do. This is just simply NOT the case.
They trained young men for their celibate monastic order for about ten
years before they were baptized into their ranks. This baptism never
took place before the age of twenty. Mr. Erickson states that the
people of Qumran were essentially the first "Mormons." However, the
people at Qumran didn't even believe in marriage! Rather they adopted
in young men from other Essene groups who married only to beget
children. By contrast, in Mormonism, marriage is absolutely essential
to each member's salvation in the Celestial Kingdom of God.

   Mr. Erickson claims that the Apocryphal books should be used as
scripture. However, even the Mormon's own "latter day" revelation
disagrees with him. In the introductory heading of Section 91 of the
Doctrine and Covenants, it declares specifically that the apocryphal
books are NOT to be accepted as scripture. Beyond that built-in
contradiction, lies the fact that one need only to read some of these
apocrypha for himself to quickly discover their singular lack of
inspiration.

   For example, two "Gospels" portray the life of the young Jesus,
allegedly covering the "silent" years skipped over in the Bible. The
book, "The First Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus" portrays Jesus as a
spoiled despot who curses another child for bumping into him, and a
schoolmaster who was going to discipline Him for refusing to answer a
question. After these two people are killed at Jesus' command, Joseph
tells Mary, "we will not allow him to go out of the house; for every
one who displeases him is killed." In Thomas' "Gospel of the Infancy
of Jesus Christ", we see Jesus causing the withering of hands,
blindness, and again, death. This is clearly not the Jesus Christ of
the Bible!

   The conclusion is inescapable -- the claims by Mr. Erickson (and
consequently other Mormons) that the Mormon doctrine is "exonerated"
by the findings in the Middle East is totally without foundation.
Mormon doctrine is not confirmed by these different religious sects,
it is contradicted by them! It is apparent that these claims are just
another chapter in the long history of false archeological boasts made
by Mormons in the past.

NOTE: A full and completely documented study of Mr. Erickson's
scholarship regarding the above topics has been written by Mrs.
Melaine Layton entitled: The Truth About the Dead Sea Scrolls and the
Nag Hammadi Writings in Reference to Mormonism. For further
information, please write to the office:

Computers For Christ - San Jose.

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

           Do Mormons "Really" Believe in the Bible?

               Isaiah 41:21 - Set Forth your case
               I Peter 3:15 - Be prepared, always


   The credibility of a religious claim rests upon its ability to
verify its terms. In the year of 1800, the French Institute in Paris
issued a list of 82 "errors' that it had found in the Bible and felt
would destroy Christianity in short order. In 1804, not one of the
alleged errors remained!

   In the year 1901, the American Society of Archeology claimed that
the Biblical account of a peoples called the Hittites was false. In
1933, archeologists found conclusive proof of the existence of the
Hittites and other peoples that the Bible had claimed existed!

   The primary question for this text is: "Why are we discussing the
matter of the Bible and its completeness? Doesn't the Mormon church
accept the Bible as the Word of God?" To respond, let me quote from
the sources of the Mormon church:

   8th Article of Faith - "We believe the Bible to be the word of God
as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of
Mormon to be the Word of God."

   Joseph Smith, in Teaching of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 327,
stated "Ignorant translators, careless transcribers, or designing and
corrupt priests committed many errors.' and the mormon apostle Mark E.
Peterson states in his book, As Translated Correctly - page 4, "Many
insertions were made, some of them "slanted' for selfish purposes,
while at times deliberate falsifications and fabrications were
perpetrated.'

   Orson Pratt further made a comment in his book, Divine Authenticity
of the Book of Mormon - pages 45 & 47, thus: "If it be admitted that
the apostles and evangelists did write the books of the New Testament,
that does not prove of itself that they were divinely inspired at the
time they wrote ... Add all this imperfection to the uncertainty of
the translation, and who, IN HIS RIGHT MIND could for one moment
suppose the Bible in its present form to be a perfect guide? Who knows
that even one verse of the Bible has escaped pollution, so as to
convey the same sense now that it did in the original?"

   The Book of Mormon, II Nephi 29:6 states "Thou fool, that shall say
a Bible, we have got a Bible and we need no more Bible. Have ye
obtained a Bible save it were by the Jews?" Can you note the FOOLS are
the only ones who trust in the Bible? Read verse 10. Here, the Book of
Mormon declares the need for more revelation and makes way for its own
existence!

   A point of interest - turn to I Nephi 13:26: "a great and
abominable church - has taken away from the gospel of the Lamb many
parts which are plain and precious; and also many covenants of the
Lord have they taken away." The Book of Mormon tells us that this is
600 B.C.! Do you know what B.C. means - BEFORE CHRIST! So we are told
that the gospel of the Lamb has been polluted six hundred years before
the Lamb or His Gospel was recorded in the New Testament and given at
the Passover!

     IS THE BIBLE INFALLIBLE?

   The Bible was composed over a period of 1,500 years by more than 40
different authors from the full range of humanity: from military
generals (Joshua) to prime ministers (Daniel) to cupbearers (Nehemiah)
to fishermen (Peter) to tax collectors (Matthew) to kings (David). The
books were written in many different places: the wilderness (Moses),
prison (Paul), and exile (John on the Island Patmos). On three
different continents (Africa, Asia and Europe) and in three different
languages (Hebrew, Aramaic and Greek).

   The content, yet, remains constant in its unfolding of the plan of
salvation through Christ Jesus. The Old Testament reveals itself to be
the story of the preparation for the arrival of the Messiah or Christ.
The Gospels of the New Testament are the manifestation of the Christ
in the person of Jesus of Nazareth. Acts is the propagation of the
message. The Epistles give the explanation and the Revelation of John
provides the consummation of the Kingdom of God in Christ Jesus or
Lord! The entire Bible is about Jesus (Luke 24:27 - 44 and John
5:39,46,47). I challenge any Mormon to take any ten people, and you
can even get them from the same heritage - education - language and
culture and ask them separately to give you their opinion of the
meaning of life - you will get opinions of such variety, yet the Bible
consists of over 40 authors of more than one generation with very
little similarity and is in total unity! Complete harmony!

   In discussion of the matter of infallibility of the Bible we need,
first to look at the process that we use to arrive at this conclusion:

PREMISE # 1 - The Bible is basically a reliable and trustworthy
document.

PREMISE # 2 - On the basis of this reliable document, we have
sufficient evidence to believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.

PREMISE # 3 - Jesus Christ, being the Son of God, is an infallible
authority. (Luke 24:27,44; John 5:39; Hebrews 10:7)

PREMISE # 4 - Jesus Christ teaches that the Bible is MORE than
generally trustworthy. He teaches that it is the very Word of God.

PREMISE # 5 - The WORD, in that it comes from God, is utterly
trustworthy because GOD is utterly trustworthy!

PREMISE # 6 - On the basis of the infallible authority of Jesus
Christ, the Bible is infallible.

   II Timothy 2:13 declares that God "cannot deny Himself" and
Galatians 1:8,9 tells us that we should be wary of any teaching of any
other Gospel than that which Paul preached, which by the declaration
of Paul in Romans 15:19 states that "I have fully preached the Gospel
of Jesus Christ."

   The Mormon church is unable to provide any proof that Paul taught
such doctrines as celestial marriage, no hell, wearing of sacred
underwear, or godhood to be obtained. It is proper to state that if
Paul never taught such doctrines, then Galatians 1:8-9 CONDEMNS them!
The claim of the LDS that more scripture is necessary is groundless.

   In II Peter 1:3, we are told that "His divine power hath given unto
us ALL things that pertain to life and godliness." Paul further
explained in Colossians 2:10 that "Ye are COMPLETE in Him." If just
these two statements are true, what possible use could additional
scripture be? Granted that nowhere in the Bible does it state that
"This is the end of Scripture"; However, with the above statements,
anything else could ONLY be redundant. It is obvious from the text of
the New Testament that the writers were "eyewitnesses" of the ministry
and presence of Jesus Christ. (II Peter 1:15-18 and I John 1:1-5)

   Acts 22:14-15 and I Corinthians 11:23 show that the Apostle Paul
was specially chosen by the Lord as a witness while the other Apostles
were alive. Paul's testimony was identical to that of the other
Apostles - what He had seen, heard and taught of the Lord Jesus was
identical to all previous teachings and in accord with the Old
Testament teachings. Much more could have been written (John 20:30 and
21:25); However, there was no need as there already existed "all
things that pertain to life and godliness." (II Peter 1:3 and John
20:31)

   How many of us, Mormon or Christian have read and digested all of
the meat of the Holy Bible - completely? Can there really be a need
for something more when the original item is still unplumbed for the
depths it contains?

   We have the following possibilities: the Bible was written by
either (1) Good Men or Angels, (2) Evil Men or Demons, (3) God.

   Good Men or Angels could not have written it as they could not
write "Thus saith the Lord" when it was a lie or an invention of their
own minds.

   Evil men or demons could not have written the Bible as they would
not have written a book that commands all duty, forbids all sin, and
condemns all evil to Hell!

   We thus have GOD as the only source of the BIble.

   In the ancient Israel, a class of servants in the Temple were
called Scribes. This was a lifelong calling and one of great
importance to the continuance of the Law and Prophets of Israel. I
will demonstrate the LEGAL method of making a copy of a document
according to the laws of Israel at this time and according to the
great traditions of the Talmud. The possibility for incorrect copy is
almost non-existent. Combine this with the facts as proven by
archeology. Prior to the Dead Sea Scroll copy of the Book of Isaiah,
the best copy of that Book was over 1000 years newer! In comparing the
two copies that covered this gap of a thousand years, there was found
only ONE CHARACTER changed, and that was an article that "possibly"
could have lost the accent mark of the character to make it 100%
identical to the dead sea scroll version! Imagine - 1000 years of
copies and NO CHANGE in the versions! Now the basis to make copies of
the New Testament were as strict. We find many incidences of the same
phenomena of clarity and correctness. Out of all the many thousands of
pieces and text, not ONE DOCTRINE has been added to or changed or
modified in ANY MANNER!

Computers for Christ - San Jose

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

               WAS JOSEPH SMITH A PROPHET OF GOD?

   If Joseph Smith was a true prophet then everyone should follow
his teachings. If, however, Joseph was a false prophet, then he should
be exposed as such.

   There are at least twenty three references in the Bible
dealing with false prophets. Some of these references are specific
tests to determine if the prophet is a true prophet of God. We will
apply just two of these tests to Joseph Smith.

   Deuteronomy 13:1-5 is the first scripture in the Bible dealing
with false prophets. The issue in these verses is whether the prophet
leads the people after another god.

   What does it mean if Joseph Smith is a false prophet? What will
happen to the people who follow a false prophet's teachings? Isaiah
9:16 says the following: "For the leaders of this people cause them to
err; and they that are led of them are destroyed." Matthew 7:15-20
says to beware of false prophets. It goes on to say that the fate of a
false prophet is that he will be "...hewn down, and cast into the
fire." The Holy Bible declares that the fate of those who follow a
false prophet is that they will go right into the Lake of Fire with
the false prophet. Please check it out for yourself.

   The god of Mormonism was born as a baby on another world. He grew
up, got baptized by one holding the proper authority, got married in
the temple for time and all eternity (probably to more than one wife),
had many children, was obedient to all of the laws and ordinances of
the gospel and eventually died. Because of his obedience and
faithfulness and by the Law of Eternal Progression he was Exalted and
became god.

   If you know anything about Mormon doctrine you know that this is
the god of Mormonism. His name is Eloheim (or Ahman) and he lives on a
planet (or star) nearest the planet Kolob. He is a glorified,
resurrected, exalted man having a tangible body of flesh and bones.
(see Mormon Doctrine by Bruce R.McConkie, page 250)

    Certain basic questions should be asked about each prophecy or
revelation. First, it must be determined that the prophetic utterance
really came from Joseph Smith. Secondly it must be determined that the
prophecy purportedly came from God. Third, you have to determine if
the prophecy came to pass exactly as outlined. Lastly, you have to
determine if the prophecy can yet come to pass.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 1 ... September 21, 1823. PEARL OF GREAT PRICE.
Joseph Smith 2:40-47.

   Joseph Smith claimed that the angel Moroni told him that the
prophecies in Isaiah, chapter 11 were about to be fulfilled and that
the prophecies in Joel, Chapter 2:28-32 were soon to be fulfilled.

    164 years have now gone by since this was received and the
prophecies that Joseph Smith referred to have not been fulfilled. We
know that these prophecies will be fulfilled in the future, but not in
Joseph Smith's (or Moroni's) timing.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 2 ... July 1828. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, Section
3, verse 3.

   "Remember, remember that it is not the work of God that is
frustrated, but the work of men;"

   This particular verse is going to come back time after time and
haunt Joseph Smith. This verse is accepted as scripture by Mormons
thus all we have to show is that if whatever is promised or prophesied
by Joseph Smith is frustrated, then it is the work of men.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 3 ... Winter 1829-1830. An ADDRESS TO ALL
BELIEVERS IN CHRIST, David Whitmer, pages 30-31.

   Joseph Smith sent Hiram Page and Oliver Cowdery to Toronto,
Canada to sell the copyright of the Book of Mormon in response to a
revelation that he claimed to have received from God.

   The mission and the revelation was a total failure as recorded by
David Whitmer. When Joseph Smith was asked why the revelation had
failed he answered that he did not know how it was. David Whitmer
records that Joseph Smith "...enquired of the Lord about it, and
behold the following revelation came through the stone: 'Some
revelations are of God: some revelation are of man: and some
revelations are of the devil.' So we see that the revelation to go to
Toronto and sell the copyright was not of God, but was of the devil or
the heart of man."

   Mormon Historian and Apostle B.H. Roberts records the following
regarding this Toronto revelation. "...May this Toronto incident and
the Prophet's explanations be accepted and faith still be maintained
in him as an inspired man, a Prophet of God? I answer unhesitatingly
in the affirmative. The revelation respecting the Toronto journey was
not of God, surely; else it would not have failed; but the Prophet,
overwrought in his deep anxiety for the progress of the work, saw
reflected in the 'Seer Stone' his own thought, or that suggested to
him by his brother Hyrum, rather than the thought of God...in this
instance of the Toronto journey, Joseph was evidently not directed by
the inspiration of the Lord." (A COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
Vol.1,p. 165).

   Remember, Deuteronomy 18:22 records that all you need is one
false prophecy to have a false prophet.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 4 ... September, 1830. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 29:10-11.

   In these two verses Joseph Smith prophesied that the "..hour is
nigh..." for Christ to return.

   157 years have gone by since Joseph Smith stated that the hour
was nigh. Only by performing mental gymnastics can this prophecy be
accepted as one that can be fulfilled.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 5 ... March, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 49:9-10.

   (9) "Wherefore, I say unto you that I have sent unto mine
everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning. (10) And
that which I have promised I have so fulfilled, and the nations of the
earth shall bow to it; and, if not of themselves, thy shall come down,
for that which is now exalted of itself shall be laid low of power."

   Mormon Apostle Bruce. McConkie on pages 529 and 530 of his book
MORMON DOCTRINE makes it quite clear that the "everlasting covenant"
is the gospel that has been given thru the Mormon Church. The gospel
according to Mormonism is composed of all of the laws and ordinances
and commandments that God has given to man.

   According to verse 10 above "....the nations of the earth shall
bow to it" (The Mormon Gospel). 150 years have now gone by since this
revelation was received and no nation has bowed down to the Mormon
gospel, or been laid low of power for not bowing down to it.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 6 ... July, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 57:1-3.

   Independence, Missouri is named as the center place of Zion.
Independence is appointed and consecrated for the gathering of the
saints. Independence is indicated to be the Land of promise.

   This is a very important revelation because it names the location
of the city of Zion.

   This revelation is false by virtue of the fact that Section 3,
verse 3 has declared that any work that is frustrated is not from God
but from men. There is no question that the gathering of the saints in
Zion (Independence) has been frustrated. They tried to gather in
Independence and were physically driven out.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 7 ... August 13, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 62:1, 6 & 9.

   Joseph Smith declares in this revelation that God told him that
"..the faithful among you should be preserved and rejoice together in
the land of Missouri, I, the Lord, promise the faithful and cannot
lie..." Verse 9 says "Behold, the kingdom is yours. And behold, and
lo, I am with the faithful always. Even so, Amen."

   The facts are these:
 (1) The faithful were not preserved.
 (2) The faithful did not rejoice together in the land of Missouri.
 (3) The kingdom was not theirs - they were driven out.

   All you have to do is read some of the history regarding the
Mormons between 1831 and 1847 and you will see that this revelation
and prophecy was, and is a total failure. If you can say that the
prophecy was frustrated then you indicate that it was not from God.
(Section 3, verse 3)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 8 ... September 11, 1831. SCRAP BOOK OF MORMON
LITERATURE, by Rich, Vol. 2, p. 259.

   "For behold, I say unto you that Zion shall flourish, and the
glory of the Lord shall be upon her, and she shall be an ensign unto
the people, and there shall come unto her out of every nation under
heaven."

   The above revelation (or prophecy) is reported by Rich to be a
revelation from God that was given to Joseph Smith. Being as it is
reported by a Mormon (Rich) we can assume that it is an undisputed
statement of Joseph Smith.

   If Zion (Independence, Missouri) has flourished, the glory of the
Lord is upon it, it is an ensign unto the people, and people from
every nation under heaven have come to Independence, it most certainly
is not because of anything that the Mormons have done. As far as
Mormons are concerned Independence has not flourished, the glory of
the Lord Is not upon it, it is not an ensign to the people and people
from every nation have not gone to Independence. The least that can be
said about this revelation (prophecy) is that it has been frustrated,
therefore, it cannot be from God. (Section 3, verse 3)

   Of course the Mormons could say that this prophecy will still
come to pass. Only by performing mental gymnastics can this prophecy
come to pass. Remember, all that has to be shown is that it was
frustrated, and it certainly was frustrated.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 9 ... November 1, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 1:35 & 37.

   (35) For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men
shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is
nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil
shall have power over his dominion.

   If God is no respecter of persons according to Joseph Smith then
why did he record the following in the PEARL OF GREAT PRICE, Moses
5:20 & 21? (20) And Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his
flock, and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel, and
to his offering; (21) But unto Cain, and to his offering, he had not
respect. Now Satan knew this, and it pleased him. And Cain was very
wroth, and his countenance fell.

   The book of Moses directly contradicts the DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS. Joseph Smith further contradicted himself when he had
recorded in the DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, Section 124:102 the following:
(102) Behold, I Say unto you, I have a mission in store for my servant
William and my servant Hyrum, and for them alone;...

   Why not Brigham or Parley or Orson? If this is not enough then
let us look at verse 37 in Section 1. (37) Search these commandments,
for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which
are in them shall all be fulfilled.

   This is stating that all of the prophecies and promises that are
in the DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS are going to be fulfilled. If ever
Joseph Smith uttered a false prophecy this is it. We have already
listed a number of prophecies and promises that have not been
fulfilled. An additional list of considerable number are described
below. It does not take a theologian to see the simple truth that
Joseph Smith has failed the test of a prophet according to Deuteronomy
18:22.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 10 ... November 3, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 133:17, 26-30.

   (17) For behold, the Lord God hath sent forth the angel crying
through the midst of heaven saying: Prepare ye the way of the Lord,
and make his paths straight, for the hour of his coming is nigh ----
(26) And they who are in the north countries shall come in remembrance
before the Lord; and their prophets shall hear his voice, and shall
smite the rocks, and the ice shall flow down at their presence. (27)
And a highway shall be cast up in the midst of the great deep. (28)
Their enemies shall become a prey unto them. (29) And in the barren
deserts there shall come forth pools of living water; and the parched
ground shall no longer be a thirsty land. (30) And they shall bring
forth their rich treasures unto the children of Ephraim, my servants.

   156 years have gone by and Christ has not returned. Another
prophecy that has been frustrated.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 11 ... December 1, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 71:6-10.

   (6) For unto him that receiveth it shall be given more
abundantly, even power. (7) Wherefore confound your enemies; call upon
them to meet you both in public and in private and inasmuch as ye are
faithful their shame shall be more manifest. (8) Wherefore let them
bring forth their strong reasons against the Lord. (9) Verily, thus
saith the Lord unto you--there is no weapon that is formed against you
shall prosper; (10) And if any man lift his voice against you he shall
be confounded in mine own due time.

   To begin with, the Mormons are disobeying the commandment given
in verse 7. We do not know of any person that is involved in the
ministry to the Mormons that has been put to shame by any Mormon.

   All you have to do is read a little church history (Mormon) to
see that the weapons used against the Mormons did prosper. They were
driven from one city to the next and finally to Salt Lake City.
Certainly the guns that were used to murder Joseph Smith prospered.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 12 ... September 22 and 23, 1982. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 84:2-5, 31, 114-115.

   (2) Yea, the work of the Lord concerning his church, established
in the last days for the restoration of his people, as he has spoken
by the mouth of his prophets, and for the gathering of his saints to
stand upon Mount Zion, which shall be the city of New Jerusalem. (3)
Which city shall be built, beginning at the the temple lot, which is
appointed by the finger of the Lord, in the western boundaries of the
State of Missouri, and dedicated by the hand of Joseph Smith, Jr., and
others with whom the Lord was well pleased. (4) Verily this is the
word of the Lord, that the city New Jerusalem shall be built by the
gathering of the saints, beginning at this place, even the place of
the temple, which temple shall be reared in this generation. (5) For
verily this generation shall not all pass away until an house shall be
built unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest upon it, which cloud shall
be even the glory of the Lord, which shall fill the house. (31)
Therefore, as I said concerning the sons of Moses --- for the sons of
Moses and also the sons of Aaron shall offer an acceptable offering
and sacrifice in the house of the Lord which house shall be built unto
the Lord in this generation, upon the consecrated spot as I have
appointed --. (114) Never-the-less, let the bishops go unto the city
of New York, also to the city of Albany, and also to the city of
Boston, and warn the people of those cities with the sound of the
gospel, with a loud voice, of the desolation and utter abolishment
which await them if they do reject these things. (115) For if they do
reject these things the hour of their judgement is nigh, and their
house shall be left unto them desolate.

   History records that Independence was built, but not by the
Mormons. History also records that Joseph Smith dedicated the temple
lot, however, it is interesting to note that the dedication ceremony
was held on August 3, 1831 more that one year previous to receiving
this revelation.

   Verse 4 has some real problems in it, it states that the city New
Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the saints. Whatever was
built by the Mormons was built prior to the winter of 1831-1832
because the Mormons were driven out of Independence at that time. The
last few words of verse 4 present the greatest problem. It states that
the temple would be reared (built) in the generation then living.
Verse 5 expands on this by stating that "...this generation shall not
all pass away until a house shall be built unto the Lord..." And
finally verse 31 repeats the fact that the temple would be built in
the generation then living.

    Since this was 155 years ago this revelation fails. Joseph
Fielding Smith (who became the 10th president of the Mormon church)
answered the generation question by stating that "it is reasonable to
believe that no soul living in 1832, is still living in mortality on
the earth." (ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS, vol.4,p.112)

   A further problem remains regarding the building of the temple.
The lot is no longer owned by the Mormons. It is now owned by the
church of Jesus Christ, Temple Lot, and they plan on building their
own temple. Another point of failure.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 13 ... December 25, 1832. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 87:1-8.

   (1) Verily, thus saith the Lord concerning the wars that will
shortly come to pass, beginning at the rebellion of South Carolina,
which will eventually terminate in the death and misery of many souls;
(2) And the time will come that war will be poured out upon all
nations, beginning at this place. (3) For behold, the Southern States
shall be divided against the Northern States, and the Southern States
will call on other nations, even the nation of Great Britain, as it is
called, and they shall also call on other nations, in order to defend
themselves against other nations; and then war shall be poured out
upon all nations. (4) And it shall come to pass after many days,
slaves shall rise up against their masters, who shall be marshalled
and disciplined for war. (5) And it shall come to pass also that the
remnants who are left of the land will marshal themselves, and shall
become exceedingly angry and shall vex the gentiles with a sore
vexation. (6) And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed the
inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and with famine, and plague, and
earthquake, and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid
lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the
wrath, and indignation, and chastening hand of an Almighty God until
the consumption decreed hath made a full end of all nations. (7) That
the cry of the saints, and of the blood of the saints, shall cease to
come up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, from the earth to be
avenged of their enemies. (8) Wherefore, stand ye in holy places, and
be not moved, until the day of the Lord come; for behold it cometh
quickly, saith the Lord. Amen.

   Joseph Smith received the above revelation on Christmas day,
1832. History records that the State of South Carolina was already in
a state of rebellion at that time. It's not much to prophesy about
something that is already happening.

   Mormons usually refer to the "Civil War" as one of the prophecies
that has been fulfilled, however, upon close examination it becomes
very clear that it is a failure. There are 20 different elements of
this prophecy. All 20 elements would have to come to pass in order for
this prophecy to be fulfilled. If all 20 elements of the prophecy were
to come to pass it would truly be remarkable. The probability of this
happening would be 1 in 1,048,576, which means ONLY a prophet BACKED
by GOD could accomplish it! The statistics prove that the calling of
PROPHET was NOT given to Joseph Smith.

   History records that the Civil War did not start until April 12,
1861, when Southern artillery shelled Fort Sumter in the harbor of
Charleston, South Carolina. It ended four years later on April 9,
1865. The Civil War did not result in war being poured out upon all
nations (verse 3). It also did not bring about "...a full end of all
nations."

   It is also interesting to note that the Civil War prophecy was
not published during Joseph Smith's lifetime. It was not printed until
1851 (19 years after Joseph Smith received it).

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 14 ... December 27, 1832. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 88:87.

   (87) For not many days hence and the earth then shall tremble and
reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the sun shall hide his face and
shall refuse o give light; and the moon shall be bathed in blood; and
the stars shall become exeedingly angry, and shall cast themselves
down as a fig that falleth from off a fig-tree.

   As of March 1, 1987 more than 56,300 days have come and gone and
the moon has not been bathed in blood, the sun has not refused to give
light and the stars have not become exceedingly angry and cast
themselves down. We believe that there is not any way that this
prophecy can be made to come true in Joseph Smith's timing.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 15 ... January 4, 1833. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
vol. 1, p. 315-316.

   "And now I am prepared to say by the authority of Jesus Christ
that not many years shall pass away before the United States shall
present such a scene of bloodshed as has not a parallel in the history
of our nation; pestilence, hail, famine, and earthquake will sweep the
wicked of this generation from off the face of the land to open and
prepare the way for the return of the lost tribes of Israel from the
north country. The people of the Lord. Those who have complied with
the requirements of the new covenant, have already commenced gathering
together in Zion which is in the state of Missouri; therefore I
declare unto you the warning which the Lord has commanded to declare
unto this generation, remembering that the eyes of My Maker are upon
me, and that to him I am accountable for every word I say, wishing
nothing worse to my fellowman than their eternal salvation; therefore,
'Fear God, and give glory to Him for the hour of His judgement is
come.' Repent ye, repent ye, and embrace the everlasting covenant and
flee to Zion, before the overflowing scourge overtake you, for there
are those now living upon the earth whose eyes shall not be closed in
death until they see all these things which I have spoken, fulfilled."

   Almost 155 years have gone by and the wicked are still on the
earth. The lost tribes have not returned.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 16 ... February 27, 1833. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 89:18-21.

   (18) And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings,
walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in
their navel and marrow to their bones; (19) And shall find wisdom and
great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; (20) And shall
run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. (21) And I, the
Lord give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by
them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen.

   The above prophecy was part of the revelation on The Word of
Wisdom. The promise is given that if the Mormons will obey the Word of
Wisdom (no coffee tea, tobacco etc.) that they would obtain all of the
promises in verses 18 - 21. The facts are that there are many Mormons
that obey the Word of Wisdom to the letter and they have not found
great treasures of knowledge or hidden treasures. They run and get
weary. They walk and sometimes faint. And most certainly the
destroying angel does not pass them by. Mormons die just like any
other group of people.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 17 ... August 2, l833. Parley P. Pratt
Biography, p. 100. Also D & C 97:19.

   "Surely Zion is the City of our God, and surely Zion cannot fail,
neither be moved out of her place; for God is there and He has sworn
by the power of His might to be her.

   Zion did fail and Zion was moved out of her place. Zion is
independence, Missouri. (see #5 above) The Mormons were driven out of
Independence in the winter of 1838-1839. Another false prophecy.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 18 ... October 12, 1833. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 100:13 & 15.

   (13) And now I give unto you a word concerning Zion. Zion shall
be redeemed although she is chastened for a little season. (15)
Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work
together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the
sanctification of the church.

   154 years have gone by since this revelation was received. Can
this be considered "a little season"?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 19 ... December 10, 1833. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
Vol. 1, p. 455.

   "Therefore this not my counsel, that you retain your lands, even
unto the utmost, and employ every lawful means to seek redress of your
enemies; and pray to God day and night to return you in peace and
safety to the lands of your inheritance; and when the judge fail you,
appeal to the executive; and when the executive fail you; appeal to
the president; and when the president fail you, and all things also
fail you but God alone, and you continue to weary Him with your
importunings as the poor woman did the unjust judge. He will not fail
you to execute judgment upon your enemies, and to avenge His own elect
that cry unto Him day and night. Behold, He will not fail you. He will
come with ten thousand of His Saints, and all His adversaries shall be
destroyed with the breath of His lips."

   The facts are these:
 (1) The Mormons did not retain their lands. (in Missouri)
 (2) They did seek redress from their enemies and were turned down by

   everyone.
 (3) The Mormon god apparently did fail them because their enemies

   were not destroyed.
 (4) The enemies of the Mormon church drove them out of Missouri.
 (5) The above is a false prophecy.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 20 ... December 16, 1833. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS. Section 1, 101:17-20.

   (17) Zion shall not be moved out of her place, not-with-standing
her children are scattered. (18) They that remain, and are pure in
heart, shall return, and come to their inheritances, they and their
children, with songs of everlasting joy, to build up the waste place
of Zion -- (19) And all these things that the prophets might be
fulfilled. (20) And, behold, there is none other place appointed than
that which I have appointed; neither shall there be any other places
appointed than that which I have appointed, for the work of the
gathering of my saints--

   This is almost exactly like number 16 above. The facts are that
the Mormons were driven out of Zion. They were moved out of her place.
This is sufficient in God's way to prove this is a false prophecy.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 21 ... February 24, 1834. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 103:5-7.

   (5) But verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which
my people shall realize, inasmuch as they harken from this very hour
unto the counsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them.
(6) Behold they shall, for I decreed it, begin to prevail against mine
enemies from this very hour. (7) And by harkening to observe all the
words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall
never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued
under my feet, and the earth is given to the saints, to possess it
forever and ever.

    Mormons will say that this prophecy is a conditional prophecy.
That the people were to harken unto the counsel of God and observe all
the words that God shall speak to them. With that condition in mind,
the Mormons will never prevail, or prove superior in strength, power,
or influence.

   Mormons will never achieve anything until they are righteous and
that will NEVER happen. Isaiah made it very clear why Mormons will
never obtain the blessings that Joseph Smith promised them when he
presented one of God's eternal truth as it relates to man. "But we are
all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousness are as filthy rags;
and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, have
taken us away." (ISAIAH 64:6).

   This prophecy can never be fulfilled because the Mormons will
never become righteous. The only way that anyone can become righteous
is to receive the real Jesus Christ into his/her heart and repent of
the abominations of following a false god and a false christ.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 22 ... April 23, 1834. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 104:1.

   (1) Verily I say unto you, my friends, I give unto you counsel,
and a commandment, concerning all the properties which belong to the
order which I commanded to be organized and established, to be a
united order, and an everlasting order for the benefit of my church,
and for the salvation of men until I come--

   History records that the United Order failed. (The United Order
was a communal type of order where everyone worked according to his
ability, gave everything that he produced or earned to the Bishop's
Storehouse and received from the Bishop's Storehouse according to his
needs.)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 23 ... June 22, 1834. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 105:13-15.

   (13) Therefore it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait
for a little season, for the redemption of Zion. (14) For behold, I do
not require at their hands to fight the battles of Zion; for, as I
said in a former commandment, even so will I fulfill--I will fight
your battles. (15) Behold, the destroyer I have sent forth to destroy
and lay waste mine enemies; and not many years hence they shall not be
left to pollute mine heritage, and to blaspheme my name upon the lands
which I have consecrated for the gathering together of my saints.

   History records that the enemies of the Mormons were not laid
waste in spite of the fact that the destroyer had been sent forth.
There is ample evidence to suggest that the destroyer was in fact a
man named Porter Rockwell. He was not out to destroy those who were
frustrating the Mormons. This is another prophecy that was frustrated
because the Mormons continued to be persecuted. In fact it was just
4-1/2 years later that the Mormons were driven out of Zion.
(Independence, Missouri)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 24 ... August 16, l834, History of the Church,
vol. 2, page 145.

   "DEAR BRETHREN ... I shall now proceed to give you such counsel
as the Spirit of the Lord may dictate .... use every effort to gather
to those regions and locate themselves, to be in readiness to move
into Jackson country in two years from the eleventh of September next,
which is the appointed time for the redemption of Zion....."

   By September 11, l836 the Mormons should have all been gathered
in Independence, Missouri. (Zion) If all of the other prophecies
regarding Zion were to come true (which they didn't), lived the United
Order (which failed), built the temple (which was never built), etc.
etc. etc.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 25 ... November 25, 1834. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 106:4.

   (4) And again, verily I say unto you, the coming of the Lord
draweth nigh, and it overtaketh the world as a thief in the night ---

   153 years have gone by since this prophecy was given and the Lord
has not returned. Does nigh really mean more than 147 years?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 26 ... February 14, 1835. History of the Church,
vol. 2, page 182.

   "President Smith then stated that the meeting had been called,
because God had commanded it; and it was made known to him by vision*
and by the Holy Spirit. He then gave a revelation of some of the
circumstances attending us while journeying to Zion -- our trials,
sufferings: and said God had not designed all this for nothing, but He
had it in remembrance yet; and it was the will of God that those who
went to Zion, with a determination to lay down their lives, if
necessary, should be ordained to the ministry, and go forth to prune
the vineyard for the last time, or the coming of the Lord, which was
nigh -- even thirty-six years should wind up the scene."

   Jesus Christ should have returned by February 14, 1891. He
didn't. Another false prophecy.

   It is interesting to note that Matthew 24:36 says that the exact
date of Christ's coming is unknown. "But of that day and hour knoweth
no man, no not the angels of heaven, but my Father only." See also
Mark 13:34 and Acts1:7.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 27 ... February 14, 1835. As reported in
PROPHECIES OF JOSEPH SMITH AND THEIR FULFILLMENT, Nephi Morris,
Deseret Book Co., 1926, page 261.

   "In due time thou shalt go to Jerusalem, the land of thy father,
and be a watchmen unto the house of Israel; and by the hands shall the
Most High do a great work, which shall prepare the way and greatly
facilitate the gathering of that people."

   This was a prophecy given to Orson Hyde, one of the twelve
apostles that Joseph Smith had chosen.

   History records that Orson Hyde did go to Jerusalem.  However,
for those Mormons that feel that he did a great work and greatly
facilitated the gathering of the Jews they are sadly mistaken. Orson
Hyde dedicated Jerusalem on October 24, 1841. It took 107 years for
the Jews to return. We are convinced and are safe to state that when
the Jews returned in 1948 there was not one single Jew who had ever
heard of Orson Hyde.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 28 ... January 21, 1836. CHURCH HISTORY,
vol.2, pages 380,381.

   "The heavens were opened upon us, and I beheld the celestial
kingdom of God, and the glory thereof, whether in the body or out I
cannot tell ..... I saw the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb, who are now
upon the earth, who hold the keys of the last ministry, in foreign
lands, standing together in a circle, much fatigued, with their
clothes tattered and feet swollen, with their eyes cast downward, and
Jesus standing in their midst, and they did not behold Him. The
Saviour looked upon them and wept.

   I also beheld Elder M'Lellin in the south, standing upon a hill,
surrounded by a vast multitude, preaching to them, and a lame man
standing before him supported by his crutches; he threw them down at
his word and leaped as a hart, by the mighty power of God. Also, I saw
Elder Brigham Young standing in a strange land, in the far south and
west, in a desert place, upon a rock in the midst of about a dozen men
of color, who appeared hostile. He was preaching to them in their own
tongue, and the angel of God standing above his head, with a drawn
sword in his hand, protecting him. But he did not see it. And I
finally saw the Twelve in the celestial kingdom of God. I also beheld
the redemption of Zion, and many things which the tongue of man
cannot describe in full."

   History does not record any of the above things ever happening.
The part regarding Elder M'Lellin is suspect because he was
excommunicated on May 11, 1838. He became one of the bitterest enemies
the Mormon church ever had, why wasn't he destroyed as promised by the
god of Mormonism?

   Joseph Smith recorded that he saw the Twelve in the celestial
kingdom of God. How is that possible when 5 of the apostles were
either excommunicated or apostatized, never to return to the church?
According to Mormon doctrine this would not be possible (for apostates
and excommunicated individuals to reach the celestial kingdom).

1. Lyman Johnson ... Excommunicated April 13, 1838, Church History,
vol...3:20.

2. Brigham Young ... O.K.

3. Heber C. Kimball ... O.K.

4. Orson Hyde ... Disfellowshipped August 4, 1835 Priesthood restored
June 27,1839. Restored as apostle at conference of October 6,7 & 8,
1839.

5. David W. Patten ... O.K.

6. Luke S. Johnson ... Apostatized December 1837, Church History,
vol. 3:31

7. William E. M'lellin ... Excommunicated May 11, 1838, Church
History, vol. 3:31

8. John F. Boynton ... Apostatized December, 1837, Church History,
vol. 2:528.

9. Orson Pratt ... Rebaptized & Ordained January 20, 1843.  Restored
As apostle, Church History, vol. 5:255. (What happened to him?)

10. William Smith ... Excommunicated October 19, 1845, Church History,
vol. 7:483.

11. Thomas B. Marsh ... Excommunicated March 17, 1839, Church History,
vol. 3:284.

12. Parley P. Pratt ... O.K.

   It should be noted that Thomas B. Marsh was rebaptized in 1857
and died in Utah a member of the Church, though never again a member
of the Twelve.

   It is interesting to note that the first part of the above vision
was accepted as scripture on April 3, 1976. The last part of the
vision (listed above) was not accepted as scripture. Is it possible
that the reason that the Mormon leaders did not present the entire
vision to be accepted as scripture is that it was clear that the last
part could not happen? If this is so then it would make the Mormon
leaders wilful deceivers.

   It is also interesting to note that the vision has been altered
by Mormon leaders. The vision was recorded in Joseph Smith's diary
under the date of January 21, 1836. In Joseph Smith's diary the
beginning of the revelation read as follows;
"The heavens were opened upon us and I beheld the celestial Kingdom of
God, I saw father Adam, and Abraham and Michael and my father and
mother, my brother Alvin..." (Joseph Smith's Diary, January 21, 1836;
original in LDS historical department).

   Now, what is wrong with the above part? The problem is that in
Mormon theology Adam is Michael. Thus if Adam is Michael then Joseph
Smith could not have seen "both" of them in the celestial kingdom.
Because of this problem the Mormon leaders deleted the words "and
Michael" from the revelation.

   We pray that each of you take the time to check into the
thousands and thousands of changes that have been made in Mormon
scriptures including the most recent one regarding the Indians (number
2 above).

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 29 ... April 3, 1836. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 110:16.

   (16) Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into
your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of
the Lord is near, even at the door.

   145 years have gone by and Jesus has not returned. There was a
dreadful day about 2-1/2 years later when the Mormons were driven not
of Zion (Independence).

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 30 ... August 6, 1836. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 111: 1-11.

   This was a revelation given through Joseph Smith at Salem,
Massachusetts.

   (1) I, the Lord your God, am not displeased with your coming this
journey, notwithstanding your follies. (2) I have much treasure in
this city, for you, for the benefit of Zion, and many people in this
city, whom I will gather out in due time for the benefit of Zion,
through your instrumentality. (3) Therefore, it is expedient that you
should form acquaintance with men in this city, as you shall be led,
and as it shall be given you. (4) And it shall come to pass in due
time that I will give this city into your hands, that you shall have
power over it, in so-much that they shall not discover your secret
parts; and its wealth pertaining to gold and silver shall be yours.
(5) Concern not yourselves about your debts, for I will give you power
to pay them. (6) Concern not yourselves about Zion, for I will deal
mercifully with her. (7) Tarry in this place, and in the regions round
about. (8) And the place where it is my will that you would tarry, for
the main, shall be signalized unto you by the peace and power of my
Spirit, that shall flow unto you. (9) This place you may obtain by
hire. And inquire diligently concerning the more ancient inhabitants
and founders of this city. (10) For there are more treasures than one
for you in this city. (11) Therefore, be ye as wise as serpents and
yet without sin; and I will order all things for your good, as fast as
ye are able to receive them. Amen.

   History records that Joseph Smith and other leaders of the Mormon
church found no treasures in Salem, Massachusetts. The Mormons have
never taken power over Salem. The silver and gold were not given to
them by their god. If ever there was a prophecy that did not come to
pass this is it. Time has run out on Joseph again. Actually the time
ran out some time in September, 1836 when Joseph Smith returned to
Kirtland, Ohio. He returned with no treasure.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 31 ... April, 1837. LATTER-DAY SAINT MESSENGER
AND ADVOCATE, page 488.

   "This place (Kirtland, Ohio) must be built up, and will be built
up, and every brother that will take hold and help secure these
contracts (for land) shall be rich."

   The Mormons were driven out of Kirtland, Ohio. Nobody became rich
by helping to secure the contracts for land. In fact, most of the men
that helped Joseph Smith in Kirtland lost most of their money in the
Kirtland anti-Banking Society. Joseph Smith himself went bankrupt.
Every thing about this prophetic utterance failed.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 32 ... July 23, 1837. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 112: 3-12.

   (This is a prophecy about Thomas B. Marsh, one of the original
twelve apostles. In fact he was the president of the twelve apostles
when this prophecy was given about him.)

   (3) Nevertheless, inasmuch as thou hast abased thyself thou shalt
be exalted; therefore, all thy sins are forgiven thee. (4) Let thy
heart be of good cheer before my face; and thou shalt bear record of
my name, not only unto the Gentiles, but also unto the Jew; and thou
shalt send forth my word unto the ends of the earth. (5) Contend thou,
therefore, morning by morning; and day after day let thy warning voice
go forth; and when the night cometh let not the inhabitants of the
earth slumber, because of they speech. (6) Let thy habitation be known
in Zion, and remove not thy house; for I, the Lord, have a great work
for thee to do, in publishing my name among the children of men. (7)
Therefore, gird up thy loins for the work, let thy feet be shod also,
for thou art chosen, and thy path lieth among the mountains, and among
many nations. (8) And by thy word many high ones shall be brought low,
and by thy word many low ones shall be exalted. (9) Thy voice shall be
a rebuke unto the transgressor; and at thy rebuke let the tongue of
the slanderer cease its perverseness. (10) Be thou humble; and the
Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy
prayers. (11) I know thy heart, and have heard thy prayers concerning
thy brethren. Be not partial towards them in love above many others,
but let thy love be for them as for thyself; and let thy love abound
unto all men, and unto all who love my name. (12) And pray for thy
brethren of the Twelve. Admonish them sharply for my name's sake, and
let them be admonished for all their sins, and be ye faithful before
me unto my name ....

   History records that Thomas B. Marsh was excommunicated on March
17, 1839 (CHURCH HISTORY, vol. 3:284). Even though he was re-baptized
in 1857 and died a member of the church in Utah he never did any of
the things outlined in the above revelation (prophecy). He never did a
great work in the church. In fact he became for many years a bitter
enemy of the church. The facts are that the Mormon god did not know
his heart (verse 11), otherwise he would have known that he was going
to be excommunicated and fight against the church.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 33 ... 1837. Oliver B. Huntington Journal,
Book 14, Original at Huntington Library, San Marino, California.
Also found in the Young Woman's Journal, published by the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of Zion, 1892, vol. 3,
pp. 263, 264.

   "Inhabitants of the Moon are more of a uniform size than the
inhabitants of the Earth, being about 6 feet in height. They dress
very much like the Quaker Style, and are quite general in Style, or
the one fashion of dress. They live to be very old; coming (sic)
generally, near a thousand years. This is the description of them as
given by Joseph the Seer, and he could "see" whatever he asked the
Father in the name of Jesus to see."

   "As far back as 1837. I know that he said the moon was inhabited
by men and women the same as this earth, and that they lived to a
greater age than we do, that they live generally to near the age of
1000 years. He described the men as average near six feet in height,
and dressing quite uniformly in something near the Quaker style..."

   No comment is necessary on the above "revelation".

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 34 ... April 17, 1838. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 114:1.

   (1) Verily thus saith the Lord: It is wisdom in my servant David
W. Patten, that he settle up all his business as soon as he possibly
can, and make a disposition of his merchandise, that he may perform a
mission unto me next spring, in company with others, even twelve
including himself, to testify of my name and bear glad tidings unto
all the world.

   History records that on October 27, 1838, Apostle David W. Patten
was buried at Far West, Missouri (CHURCH CHRONOLOGY, page 15). If you
are going to say that he was not worthy then let me tell you what
Joseph Smith said about him. "Brother David Patten was a very worthy
man, beloved by all good men who knew him. He was one of the Twelve
Apostles, and died as he had lived, a man of God, and strong in the
faith of a glorious resurrection, in a world where mobs will hue no
power or place. One of his last expressions to his wife was --
'Whatever you do else, O! do not deny the faith'" (HISTORY OF THE
CHURCH, vol. 3, p.171).

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 35 ... April 26, 1838. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 115:1, 7-9, 12.

   (1) Verily thus saith the Lord... (7) Let the city, Far West, be
a holy and consecrated Land unto me; and it shall be called most holy,
for the ground upon which thou standest is holy. (8) Therefore, I
command you to build a house unto me, for the gathering together of my
saints, that they may worship me. (9) And let there be a beginning of
this work, and a foundation, and a preparatory work, this following
summer; is holy. (12) Thus let them from that time forth labor
diligently until it shall be finished, from the corner stone thereof
unto the top thereof, until there shall not anything remain that is
not finished.

   149 years have gone by and the temple is still not built. The
cornerstone of the temple was laid on July 4, 1838 amid elaborate
ceremonies (A COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF
LATTER-DAY SAINTS, B. H. Roberts, page 440)

   For 149 years the building of this temple has been frustrated,
therefore it cannot be from God but from the mind of man. (Section
3:3)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 36 ... July 8, 1838. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 117:12-15.

   (12) And again, I say unto you, I remember my servant Oliver
Granger; behold, verily I say unto him that his name shall be held in
sacred remembrance from generation to generation, forever and ever,
saith the Lord. (13) Therefore, let him contend earnestly for the
redemption of the First Presidency of my Church, saith the Lord; and
when he falls he shall rise again, for his sacrifice shall be more
sacred unto me than his increase, saith the Lord. (14) Therefore, let
him come up hither speedily, unto the land Zion; and in the due time
he shall be made a merchant unto my name, saith the Lord, for the
benefit of my people. (15) Therefore let no man despise my servant
Oliver Granger, but let the blessings of my people be on him forever
and ever...

   The facts are that it is very rare that you can find anyone in
the Mormon church who has ever heard of Oliver Granger. His name is
supposed to be held in sacred remembrance from generation to
generation, forever and ever. What happened?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 37 ... March 20, 1839. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 121:5-15,33.

   (5) Let thine anger be kindled against our enemies; and, in the
fury of thine heart, with thy sword avenge us of our wrongs. (6)
Remember thy suffering saints, O our God; and thy servants will
rejoice in thy name forever. (7) My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine
adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; (8) And
then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt
triumph over all thy foes. (9) Thy friends do stand by thee, and they
shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands. (10) Thou
art not yet as Job; thy friends do not contend against thee, neither
charge thee with transgression, as they did Job. (11) And they who do
charge thee with transgression, their hope shall be blasted, and their
prospects shall melt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning
rays of the rising sun; (12) And also that God hath set his hand and
seal to change the times and seasons, and to blind their minds, that
they may not understand his marvelous workings; and take them in their
own craftiness; (13) Also because their hearts are corrupted, and the
things which they are willing to bring upon others, and love to have
others suffer, may come upon themselves to the very uttermost; (14)
That they may be disappointed also, and their hopes may be cut off;
(15) And not many years hence, that they and their posterity shall be
swept from under heaven, saith God, that not one of them is left to
stand by the wall. (33) How long can rolling waters remain impure?
What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his
puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn
it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge
from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints.

   The preface to Section 121 in the 1981 edition of the DOCTRINE
AND COVENANTS indicates that the above remarks are "Prayer and
prophecies written by Joseph Smith the Prophet, while he was a
prisoner in the jail at Liberty, Missouri, dated March 20, 1839."

   Joseph Smith's god promised that he (and the Mormons) would
triumph over all their foes. They didn't and he didn't. They had just
been driven out of Zion (Independence) by their enemies. Joseph Smith
was to die by the hands of his enemies in a little over 5 years. The
Mormons were to be driven all the way to Utah in just 8 years.

   When were the times and seasons changed? (verse 12) When were the
minds of their enemies blinded (verse 12)? When were the enemies of
the Mormons swept from under heaven? (verse 15) They, and their
posterity? Not one of them left to stand against the wall? We can't
find any evidence of anything happening except the enemies of the
Mormons overcoming them and driving them out. In spite of the fact
that the Mormon god kept promising them that they would conquer their
enemies.

   Where is all of the knowledge that has been poured down on the
heads of the Latter-day Saints? Not the knowledge of man. The
knowledge from heaven. Where are the Bible scholars? Where are the
scholars in Hebrew and Greek? The Mormons as a whole are abysmally
lacking in knowledge from heaven.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 38 ... September 18, 1839. Reed Peck's
Manuscript.

   "Within three years they should march to Jackson County and there
should not be a dog to open his mouth against them."

   148 years have gone by and the Mormons have not marched to
Jackson County yet. They should have had their marching orders prior
to 1843. They had already tried to march to Zion (Independence,
Jackson County, Missouri) in 1834 and the march failed (see number 20
above). They were to move into Zion (Independence) no later than
September 11, 1836 (see number 23 above). The facts are that they were
driven out of Zion and have never returned.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 39 ... January 19, 1841. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 124:20-21.

   (20) And again, verily I say unto you, my servant George Miller
is without guile; he may be trusted because of the integrity which he
has to my testimony I, the Lord, love him. (21) I therefore say unto
you I seal upon his head the office of a bishopric, like unto my
servant Edward Partridge, that he may receive the consecrations of
mine house, that he may administer blessings upon the heads of the
poor of my people, saith the Lord. Let no man despise my servant
George, for he shall honor me.

   The following can be found in the CHURCH CHRONOLOGY (page 36)
under the date of Sunday, December 3, 1848.

   "At a meeting held in the Great Salt Lake City Fort, fellowship
was withdrawn from Apostle Lyman Wight and Bishop George Miller."

   Another promise frustrated (Section 3, verse 3). Of course the
Mormon would say that all blessings are predicated on the
righteousness of the people. Let's see what the Bible says about the
righteous.

   "As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one: "(Romans
3:10). "For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;"
(Romans 3:23).

   What does none righteous mean to you? What does all have sinned
mean to you? To me it means everyone who has ever lived and will ever
live. THAT'S WHY WE NEED JESUS CHRIST. Without Him we would all be
lost.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 40 ... March, 1841. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 125:1-4.

   (1) What is the will of the Lord concerning the saints in the
Territory of Iowa? (2) Verily, thus saith the Lord, I say unto you, if
those who call themselves by my name and are saying to be my saints,
if they will do my will and keep my commandments concerning them, let
them gather themselves together unto the places which I shall appoint
unto them by my servant Joseph, and build up cities unto my name, that
they may be prepared for that which is in store for a time to come.
(3) Let them build up a city unto my name upon the land opposite the
city of Nauvoo, and let the name of Zarahemia be named upon it. (4)
And let all those who come from the east, and the west, and the north,
and the south, that have desires to dwell therein, take up their
inheritance in the same, as well as in the city of Nashville, or the
city of Nauvoo and in all the stakes which I have appointed, saith the
Lord.

   What happened to Zion? It was supposed to flourish. It was not to
be moved out of her place (see number 16 above). History records that
Zarahemia failed, along with Nauvoo, Kirtland, Independence and every
other attempt to settle until they finally arrived in Salt Lake where
there was nobody to contend with for the land.

   Since the promises of the Mormon god have not been kept so many
times in the past, we see no reason to believe that he will produce on
the promise of Eternal Life. It is an empty promise coming from this
"proven" FALSE GOD.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 41 ... August 6, 1842. George Q. Cannon Diary.

   "At Montrose, Iowa, August 6, 1842, he (Joseph Smith) uttered a
remarkable prophecy, which like every other prediction from his lips
has been literally fulfilled. He declared the Saints would continue to
suffer much affliction and would finally be driven to the Rocky
Mountains. Many would apostatize, others would be put to death by
their persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of their exile;
and many of those who listened to him would live to assist in building
cities and to see the Saints become a mighty people in the tops of the
Rocky Mountains." (See also CHURCH HISTORY, vol. 5 page 85)

   This is a questionable prophecy of Joseph Smith. If the Mormons
want to accept it (evidence suggests that it is a forgery) they still
have some problems with it. All you have to do is look at some of the
statistics regarding Mormons in the Rocky Mountains to see that they
are not as mighty as the public relations department of the Mormon
church would have the world believe.

1. Utah has one of the highest divorce rates in the U.S.
2. Utah has a very high number of persons on welfare. (When you

   combine the government and church numbers together it is perhaps

   the highest in the nation on a per capita basis.)
3. Utah has one of the highest suicide rates in the nation.

   (Especially high among teenagers.)
4. Utah has a very high venereal disease rate.
5. Utah has a very high percentage of marriages where the bride is

   pregnant at the time of the marriage.
6. Salt Lake City is known as the "Stock Fraud" capital of the U.S.
7. In spite of being the home of the Mormon church, Utah has a very

   high consumption of alcohol on a per capita basis. There is a very

   high number of women alcoholics in Utah.
8. There is a problem with drugs in Utah that would not be expected in

   the home of the Mormon church.
9. Counterfeiting is a problem in Utah.
10. Homosexuality and lesbianism is a real problem in Utah. (And the

   entire Mormon Church.)
11. Bankruptcy is running at twice the national average in Utah.

   I believe that the facts are that the Mormons are not the mighty
people that the public relations department of the Mormon church would
have you believe.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 42 ... August 6, 1842. Anson Call Diary, as
reported in PROPHECIES OF JOSEPH SMITH, AND THEIR FULFILLMENT, Nephi
Lowell Morris, Deseret Book Company, 1926.

   "After drinking a drought of ice water he (Joseph Smith) said,
Breathren, this water tastes much like the crystal streams that are
running in the Rocky Mountains which some of you will participate of.
There are some of these standing here that will perform a great work
in that land (pointing to Shadrack Roundy and a number of others whom
I have forgotten). There is Anson, he shall go and assist in building
cities from one end of the country to the other and you shall perform
as great a work as has ever been done by man, and the nations of the
earth shall be astonished and many of them will be gathered in that
land and assist in building cities."

   History records that Anson Call assisted in settling Millard
County, Utah, a southern semi-desert region of which Fillmore is the
county seat (Church Chronology, page 44), The other "large" cities in
that district are Delta, Hinckley, Kanosh, Leamington, Oasis and
Abraham.

   Anson Call did not assist in building cities from one end of the
country to the other. He did not perform as great a work as has ever
been done by man. Certainly the nations of the earth are not
astonished at his achievements.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 43 ... September 1, 1842. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 127:2

   (2) For to this day has the God of my father delivered me out of
them all, and will deliver me from henceforth; for behold, and lo, I
shall triumph over all my enemies, for the Lord God hath spoken it.

   Another promise that Joseph Smith would triumph over his enemies.
It simply did not come to pass. Joseph Smith died at the hands of his
enemies. The Mormons were driven out of every place they tried to
settle.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 44 ... April 5, 1843. History of the Church,
vol. 5, page 336 and Joseph Smith's Diary, March 10, 1843 - July 14,
1843.

   "Were I going to prophesy, I would say the end (of the world)
would not come in 1844, 5 or 6, or in forty years. There are those of
the rising generation who shall not taste death till Christ comes. I
was once praying earnestly upon this subject, and a voice said unto
me. 'My son, if thou livest until thou are eighty-five years of age,
thou shall see the face of the Son of Man.' I was left to draw my own
conclusions concerning this; and I took the liberty to conclude that
if I did live to that time, He would make His appearance. But I do not
say whether He will make His appearance or I shall go where he is. I
prophesy in the name of the Lord God, and let it be written --- the
Son of Man will not come in the clouds of heaven till I am eighty five
years old."

   The preceding account is found in the CHURCH HISTORY. Notice the
changes that have been made from the account in Joseph Smith's Diary.

   "...I prophesy in the name of the Lord God --- and let it be
written: that the Son of Man will not come in the heavens till I am 85
years old 48 years hence or about 1890..."

   The Mormon historians have deleted "48 years hence or about
1890." With the death, in the 1970's, of the last remaining Mormon
that was alive at the time of the prophesy, We can safely say that the
rising generation came and died and Jesus has not returned. (Remember
Matthew 24:36) He also did not come about 1890.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 45 ... May 18, 1843. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
vol. 5, page 394.

   President Smith, in concluding his remarks, said that if the
government, which received into its coffers the money of citizens for
its public treasury, cannot protect such citizens in their lives and
property, it is an old granny anyhow; and I prophesy in the name of
the Lord God of Israel, unless the United States redress the wrongs
committed upon the Saints in the state of Missouri and punish the
crimes committed by her officers that in a few years the government
will be utterly overthrown and wasted, and there will not be so much a
potsherd left,..."

   History records that Congress did not grant protection to the
Mormons. It also records that Congress did not redress the wrongs
committed against the Saints in the state of Missouri.  There was no
punishment of her officers. 144 years have gone by and Congress is
still intact. The government has not been destroyed (overthrown and
wasted). Certainly you can see that this is a false prophecy.
Remember, all you need is one. (Deut. 18:22)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 46 ... July, 12, 1843. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 132:6, 8, 52-54, 62 & 66.

   (6) And as pertaining to the new and everlasting covenant,
(Plural Marriage) it was instituted for the fullness of my glory; and
he that receiveth a fullness thereof must and shall abide the law, or
he shall be damned, said the Lord God. (8) Behold, mine house is a
house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. (12)
I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment -- that no
man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my
law, saith the Lord. (52) And let mine handmaid, Emma Smith, receive
all those that have been given unto my servant Joseph, and who are
virtuous and pure before me; and those who are not pure, and have said
they were pure, shall be destroyed, saith the Lord God. (53) For I am
the Lord thy God, and ye shall obey my voice; and I give unto my
servant Joseph that he shall be made ruler over many things; for he
hath been faithful over a few things, and from henceforth I will
strengthen him. (54) And I command mine handmaid, Emma Smith, to abide
and cleave unto my servant Joseph, and to none else. But if she will
not abide this commandment she shall be destroyed, saith the Lord; for
I am the Lord thy God, and will destroy her if she abide not in my
law. (62) And if he gave ten virgins given unto him by this law, he
cannot commit adultery, for they belong to him, and they are given
unto him; therefore is he justified. (66) And now, as pertaining to
this law, verily, verily, I say unto you, I will reveal more unto you,
hereafter; therefore, let this suffice for the present. Behold, I am
Alpha and Omega. Amen.

   To begin with, Plural Marriage was to be an everlasting covenant.
Where is it now? Everyone who is not living the law of Plural Marriage
today is damned. (verse 6)

   Verse 8 states that God's house is not a house of confusion.
Amen. Mormon doctrine is so full of confusion that it cannot be from
the One True God. Only a false god could create such a mass of
confusion as exists in Mormonism.

   Verse 12 states that no man shall come unto the Father but by me
or by my word, which is my law..." This is in absolute contradiction
to God's word in Galatians 2:16 and 3:10 & 11.

   2:16 - Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the
law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus
Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by
the works of the law: for by the works of the law shall no flesh be
justified.

   3:10 - For as many as are of the works of the law are under the
curse: for it is written, cursed is every one that continueth not in
all things which are written in the the book of the law to do them.

   3:11 - But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of
God, it is evident for, The just shall live by faith.

   Verse 53 states that Joseph Smith would be strengthened. Less
than one year later he was dead at the hands of his enemies.

   Verse 62 is not only contrary to God's word in the Bible but is
also contrary to Section 101 of the 1835 Doctrine & Covenants where it
said in verse 4, "...we declare that we believe, that one man should
have one wife; and one woman but one husband, except in case of death,
when either is at liberty to marry again..." Here we have another
example of the Mormon god changing his mind.

   Regarding verse 66, where is the additional information on the
law of Plural Marriage that was supposed to be given to Joseph Smith?
Certainly, if there was more to be revealed then it should have been
revealed to one of the Presidents of the Mormon Church before now.

   We believe, based on the "facts" as outlined by the Mormon church
and by historical documentation, that that the "new and everlasting
covenant of Plural Marriage" was and IS from Satan.  We note the
existence of a Mormon sect living in Mexico who still practice this
"according to the law of God and His prophet, Joseph Smith, Junior"!

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 47 ... January 17, 1864. Joseph Smith Blessing.

   "A blessing, given to Joseph Smith, 3rd, by his father, Joseph
Smith, Jun., on Jan 17, 1844. Blessed of the Lord is my son Joseph,
who is called the third, for the Lord knows the integrity of his
heart, and loves him, because of his faith, and righteous desires. And
for this cause, has the Lord raised him up; that the promises made to
the fathers might be fulfilled, even that the annointing of the
progenitor shall be upon the head of my son, and his seed after him,
from generation to generation. For he shall be my successor to the
Presidency of the High Priesthood: a Seer, and a Revelator, and a
Prophet, unto the Church; which appointment belongeth to him by
blessing, and also by right. Verily, thus saith the Lord; if he abides
in me, his days shall be lengthened upon the earth, but, if he abides
not in me, I the Lord, will receive him, in an instant, unto myself.
When he is grown, he shall be a strength to his brethren, and a
comfort to his mother. Angels will minister unto him, and he will be
wafted as on eagle's wings, and be as wise as serpents, even a
multiplicity of blessings shall be his. Amen."

   We state that this is the most clear cut false prophecy Joseph
Smith ever gave. The key is in the second paragraph. History records
that Joseph Smith, III lived a long and "full" life into his 80's. He
did not abide in the Mormon church. He abandoned the Utah church and
became the President of the RLDS church on April 6, 1860.

   The fact that he lived to be such an old age and the fact that he
was not taken in an instant because he did not abide with the Utah
church is proof positive that this is a false prophecy.

   There is another aspect of this prophecy that most everyone has
overlooked. This prophecy was only one of eight possible methods for
the succession to the Presidency that Joseph Smith had established.
(see SUNSTONE, vol 6, No 2, pages 2-4)

1. By a counselor in the First Presidency.
2. By a special appointment.
3. Through the office of Associate President.
4. By the Presiding Patriarch.
5. By the Council of Fifty.
6. By the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
7. By the three priesthood councils.
8. By a descendant of Joseph Smith, Jr.

   In Section 132, verse 8, the god of Mormonism states, "Behold,
mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of
confusion." We submit that the provision of eight possible ways for
the succession to the Presidency is utter chaos, especially the eight
listed above.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 48 ... June 19, 1844. Mormon Neighbor.

   "I therefore warn the lawless not to be precipitate in any
interference in our affairs, for as sure as there is a God in Israel,
we shall ride triumphant over oppression."

    On June 27, 1844 Joseph Smith was dead at the hand of his enemies.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 49 ... MILLENNIAL STAR, 19:343.

   The Kirtland anti-bank was to "Swallow up all other banks."

   The Kirtland "Anti-bank" failed in the summer of 1837.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 50 ... Compendium, 1882, page 271.

   "The time is soon coming when no man will have any peace but in
Zion (Independence, Missouri) and her Stakes."

   Over 137 years have gone by since this Prophecy was uttered. Is
that soon?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 51 ... ROCKY MOUNTAIN SAINTS, Stenhouse, page
42.

   "Joseph Smith prophesied by revelation that W.W. Phelps would not
taste of death till Jesus came. Often in private and in public did Mr.
Philps boast to the saints of his blessing, given to him by revelation
and prophecy through Joseph."

   In March, 1872, the Salt Lake City papers carried the following
announcement: "Phelps - William Wines Phelps, Born in the state of New
Jersey, February 1792, died March 7,1872, in Salt Lake City, Utah."

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 52 ... November 28, 1841. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
vol. 4. page 467.

   "I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct
of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man
would get nearer to God by abiding its precepts, than by another
book."

   If the BOOK OF MORMON is the most correct book on earth, why have
there been at least 3,914 changes in it since the first edition in
1830? We have a photo-mechanical copy of the 1830 edition with all of
the changes marked. We even make note of the 1981 change in 2 Nephi
30:6 which changed "white and delightsome" to "pure and delightsome".

   Verse 16-20 of Section 3 prophecies that the Lamanites will be
converted. To Mormons the Lamanites are the Indians. The Mormon church
has been trying to convert the Indians for 153 years to no avail. A
large majority of the Indians that they have converted are totally
inactive. This is especially true in Latin America and South America.
The Indians go in the front door and very soon go out the back door.

   There is another interesting scripture in the BOOK OF MORMON
regarding the Indians. 2 Nephi 30:6 includes a prophecy that the
Lamanites (Indians) would turn "white and delightsome" in a few
generations after accepting the gospel. It is interesting to note that
the handwritten manuscript of 2 Nephi 30:6 has "white and
delightsome". In 1840 Joseph Smith directed that it be changed to
"pure and delightsome." Brigham Young directed that it be changed back
to "white and delightsome". It has remained "white and delightsome"
until 1981 where it has now appeared as "pure and delightsome" with no
footnote indicating why it was changed. Is it possible that now that
sufficient time has gone by to see that the Lamanites are not going to
turn "white and delightsome" after several generations of being
members of the Mormon Church, that it is prudent to change the verse
to "pure and delightsome" which is easier to defend? Honest editing
would at least place a footnote by the change to explain why the
change had been made.

   Why can't you find anything in the BOOK OF MORMON about some of
the essential doctrines of the Mormon church? Such as the following:

1. God has a body of flesh and bones.
2. God is an exalted man.
3. God is a product of eternal progression.
4. The plurality of Gods.
5. God "organized" the world rather than "creating" it.
6. There is no eternal hell and punishment.
7. Men can become gods.
8. "Intelligences" are eternal.
9. Pre-existing spirits of men.
10. Marriage for eternity.
11. Polygamy is not an abomination in the sight of God.
12. Three degrees of glory.
13. A mother in heaven.
14. A Melchizedek priesthood consisting of the offices of Elder,

    Seventy and High Priest.
15. An Aaronic priesthood consisting of the offices of Deacon,

    Teacher and Priest.
16. The functions and offices of Evangelists, Bishoprics, Stake

    Presidencies, Assistants to the Twelve, a First Presidency and a

    President of the Church.

   If the BOOK OF MORMON contains "...the fullness of the gospel of
Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jews also;" why aren't the
above doctrines found in it?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 53 ... JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, vol. 12:204.

   "How long will it be before the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith
will be fulfilled? He said if the Constitution of the United States
were saved at all it must be done by this people. It will not be many
years before these words come to pass."

   If Joseph Smith really said the above, and I have no reason to
doubt Brigham Young, then at least 143 years have gone by since Joseph
Smith said it. (He died in June, 1844) Of course the time element was
added by Brigham Young, but we are discussing only one FALSE PROPHET,
at this time.

   The above prophecies are only a few of the prophecies of Joseph
Smith. We declare that the ones listed above are false. Some of them
are more clearly false than others. According to Deuteronomy 18:22 all
you need is one.

   In this text We have only tested Joseph Smith according to the
two tests. There are at least two others.

   "To the law and to the testimony; if they speak not according to
this word, it is because there is no light in them." (Isaiah 8:20)

   "The ancient and honorable, he is the head; and the prophet that
teacheth lies, he is the tail." (Isaiah 9:15)

   If you apply the above two tests to Joseph Smith, the case
against him is devastating. The first applies to doctrines that are
taught by Joseph Smith that are not in harmony with the Bible. (Law
and testimony) There are so many doctrines that he taught that are not
in harmony with the Bible that it would take an entire book to cover
them.

   The second one applies to the prophet that teacheth lies.  That
would take another book.

   Verse 114 and 115 of Section 84 record that the cities of New
York, Albany and Boston were to be destroyed (desolation and utter
abolishment) if they rejected the sound of the Mormon gospel. History
records that Joseph Smith and Bishop Newell K. Whitney went to these
cities in response to verse 114 and 115. There is no record of these
cities ever receiving the Mormon gospel during the life of Newell K.
Whitney or Joseph Smith. In fact the Mormon church is till very small
in those cities. If these verses were truly from God then these cities
should have been destroyed by now. I believe this is another evidence
of Joseph Smith failing as a prophet of God.

   Remember, all you need is one false prophecy to have a false
prophet. Christians have a Living Prophet who is GOD and our personal
Savior. We follow the "Lamb of God" who died for us and we are aware
of HIS sacrifice on our behalf.

    If you now see the error that you presently live in, we ask that
you pray this prayer:

   FATHER, I AM SORRY FOR MY SINS AND MY SIN OF IGNORING YOUR WORD
AND FOLLOWING MEN TO BE THE ONES WHO CAN LEAD TO SALVATION. I NOW KNOW
THIS IS WRONG AND AGAINST YOUR WORD AND HUMBLY ASK FOR YOUR
FORGIVENESS AND MERCY. I ACKNOWLEDGE THE SACRIFICE OF JESUS AS PAYMENT
FOR MY SINS AND THANK YOU FOR THIS RELEASE. LORD JESUS, COME INTO MY
HEART AND LIVE THERE AND GUIDE MY STEPS FROM THIS DAY FORWARD. ALLOW
ME TO BE YOUR VESSEL ON EARTH TO CARRY THE TRUE MESSAGE OF YOUR LOVE
TO ALL MEN. THESE THINGS I NOW PRAY IN THE NAME OF MY TRUE SAVIOR AND
LORD, JESUS CHRIST. AMEN

Computers For Christ - San Jose

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                   SALVATION THROUGH CHRIST
                              vs:
                     THE EXALTATION OF MAN

   God's word, the BIBLE, which clearly states that our salvation is
through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, alone through one faith and
His Grace --- not as a result of fabricating our own righteousness by
"good works" by attempting to become "perfect" as a result of laws and
ordinances of any organization.

                      I JOHN 5:11-13

   "And this is the record, that God hath given us eternal life, and
this life is in His son. He that hath the Son hath life; and he that
hath not the Son hath  not life. These things have I written unto you
that believe on the name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye
have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of
God."

   God spells it out - you either have life through the Son or you reject
Him. It is either Heaven or the Lake of Fire; no "grey areas"; no
half-way locations. You either accept the Son or you reject Him.

   Mormonism claims to accept Jesus ----

   "We have His name on our church" - But we have now seen that the Jesus
of Mormonism is a different Jesus- not any resembalance to the REAL
Jesus. Further, by rejecting the total sufficiency of the New Covenant
of the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross for their personal sins - and
instead electing to attempt the old covenant of works, laws, temples,
etc ----- they nullify the offer of eternal life as a gift by God's
Love and immeasurable Grace:

                         GALATIANS  2:21

   "I do not frustrate the Grace of God: for if righteousness come by the
law, then Christ is dead in vain."

   As a result, the Mormon believing in the Mormon Jesus, and not the
real Jesus of the BIBLE; and following a life only of works, even with
utmost sincerity, without the saving faith in the one who died for
them, personally, is LOST. We don't say that - GOD says that - in HIS
Word - The BIBLE

                         THREE KINGDOMS?

   Let's go further ---- Mormonism claims three "heavens." They take I
CORINTHIANS 15:37-49 totally out of context to arrive at this false
teaching. Where Paul is declaring that an individual's resurrected
body is different in Glory from his earthly body - as the sun differs
from the moon, from the stars - Mormonism has declared three kingdoms
of Heaven:

                        TELESTIAL KINGDOM

   Where all the wicked go, whether they've rejected God and Jesus all
their life or not - Murderers, etc !

                        TERRESTIAL KINGDOM

   Where good and honorable persons go - they only failed to accept the
"gospel" of Mormonism.

                        CELESTIAL KINGDOM

a) LOWER DEGREE
Good Mormons, but failed to marry in the Temple and having "other"
imperfections. These will be allowed to be angels.

b) MIDDLE DEGREE
Mormons who failed to accept the complete "gospel" but were married in
the Temple, sealed to many wives, and are in the process of being
exalted through baptism of the dead, etc.

c) HIGHEST DEGREE - EXALTATION
"Perfect" Mormons. They will be gods themselves just like God the
Father. Will have eternal, multiple, marriages for the purpose of
sexually procreating billions of spirit children to populate another
world that they will reign over as that world's god.

                       MORMON TERMINOLOGY

   Let's be "clear" on some important terms - even though you will find
Mormon writers interchanging them, in a strict sense they are:

                           SALVATION

   Resurrection only; immortality, or simply life after death. This is
what Christ's death on the cross "achieved". This is what all mankind
has by the Grace of God as a free kingdoms
of Heaven:

                        TELESTIAL KIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                   SALVATION THROUGH CHRIST
                              vs:
                     THE EXALTATION OF MAN

   God's word, the BIBLE, which clearly states that our salvation is
through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, alone through one faith and
His Grace --- not as a result of fabricating our own righteousness b
                  JOSEPH SMITH'S FIRST VISION
                         Fact or Fable ?
                        By W. P. Walters

   "Sometime in the second year after our removal to Manchester, there
was in the place where we lived an unusual excitement on the subject
of religion. It commenced with the Methodists, but soon became general
among all the sects in the region of country ... my mind became
somewhat partial to the Methodists ... but so great was the confusion
and strife among the different denominations, that it was impossible
... to come to any certain conclusion who was right, and who was wrong
... in accordance with this, by determination, to ask God, I retired
to the woods to make an attempt. It was on the morning of a
beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of eighteen hundred and
twenty ... I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my
heart to God. ... I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head ...
When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, (whose brightness
and glory defy all description) standing above me in the air ... I
asked the personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the
sects was right, (for at this time it had never entered into my heart
that all were wrong) and which I should join. I was answered that I
must join none of them, for they were all wrong ..."  Joseph Smith,
Jr.

   The well publicized story above, of Joseph Smith's First Vision is
not a true account of the origin of the Latter Day Saint movement. The
facts are decidedly against it!

   First, the historical evidence shows that Joseph Smith, Jr. could
not have been stirred by an 1820 revival, to ask which church was
true.

   Second, early Mormon statements do not support his claim that in
1820 he learned through a visitation of the Father and the Son that
all existing churches were wrong.

   Third, the details known about Joseph's early life contradict his
assertion that in 1820 he had such a divine visitation and was
persecuted by the community for telling such a story.

NO 1820 REVIVAL .....

   First his neighborhood in 1820 experienced no revival such as he
described, in which "great multitudes" joined the Methodist, Baptist,
and Presbyterian churches. The Presbyterian records for the Palmyra
Presbyterian Church show that it experienced no revival in 1820. The
local Baptist Church gained only six on profession of faith the entire
year, while the Methodists actually lost members that year as well as
the preceeding and following years. (Minutes of the Annual
Conference)

   Joseph Smith claimed that his mother, sister and two brothers were
led to join the local Presbyterian Church as a result of that 1820
revival. However, four years before he made this claim, his own church
paper had stated that the revival in which his family had been led to
join the Presbyterian Church took place in 1823. (Messenger & Advocate
I, pp. 42, 78) In fact, that account says it was the same 1823 revival
that led him to go to his bedroom (not to a sacred grove) and pray "if
a Supreme being did exist" and to know that "he was accepted of him."
An angel (not a deity) is then reported to have appeared and told
him of his forgiveness and of the gold plates.

   Joseph's mother, likewise, knew nothing of an 1820 vision. In her
unpublished account she traces the origin of Mormonism to a BEDROOM
VISIT by an angel. Joseph at the time had been "pondering which of the
churches were the true one." The angel told him "there is not a true
church on Earth, No not one." (First draft of "Lucy Smith's History,"
LDS Church Archives)

   Furthermore, she tells us that the revival which led to her joining
the church took place following the death of her son, Alvin. Alvin
died November 19, 1823, and following that painful loss she reports
that: "..about this time there was a great revival in religion and the
whole neighborhood was very much aroused to the subject and we among
the rest, flocked to the meeting house to see if there was a word of
comfort for us that might relieve our over-charged feelings." (P. 86)

   She adds that although her husband would only attend the first
meetings, he had no objection to her or the children "going or
BECOMING CHURCH MEMBERS." (emphasis added)

   There is plenty of additional evidence that the revival Lucy Smith
refers to did occur during the winter of 1824-1825. It was reported in
at least a dozen newspapers and religious periodicals. The church
records show outstanding increases due to the reception of new
converts. The Baptist Church received 94, the Presbyterian 99, while
the Methodist work grew by 208. No such revival bringing in "great
multitudes" occurred in 1820.

   It is clear that the revival Joseph Smith, Jr. described did not
occur in 1820, but in 1824. Joseph Smith arbitrarily moved that
revival back four years to 1820 and made it fit a First Vision story
that neither his mother nor other close associates had heard of in
those early days. The historical facts completely discredit Joseph
Smith's First Vision story. (For further details see, DIALOGUE: A
JOURNAL OF MORMON THOUGHT, Spring 1969, pp. 59-100)

BIBLE READING vs. REVELATIONS .....

   About 1832, Joseph Smith, Jr. began an account of the origin of the
Mormon church (the only one written in his own hand), that contradicts
the official First Vision story he dictated some six years later. The
account was never finished and has only recently been published. (See
the text in BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY STUDIES, Spring 1969, pp. 278ff)
In this version Joseph presents himself between the ages of twelve and
fifteen being a committed and perceptive reader of the Bible. He
claims that his STUDY OF THE SCRIPTURES led him to understand that all
the denominations were wrong. He wrote: "...by searching the
Scriptures I found that mankind did not come into the Lord but that
they had apostatised from the true and living faith and there was no
society or denomination that built upon the Gospel of Jesus Christ as
recorded in the new testament."    Six years later, when he set forth
his official First Vision story, he decided that he never had reached
the firm conclusion that all churches were wrong from his study of the
Bible. Instead, he claimed that it was DURING A VISION OF THE FATHER
AND THE SON that he first learned this information. He presented this
as coming as a great surprise, for he added parenthetically - "for at
this time it had NEVER ENTERED INTO MY HEART THAT ALL WERE WRONG."
(emphasis added) That statement even contradicted what Joseph had said
a few paragraphs earlier in the same account. There he claimed that "I
OFTEN SAID TO MYSELF ... Who of all these parties are right; or ARE
THEY ALL WRONG TOGETHER?" (emphasis added) Although the former
statement appears in the original manuscript (see BYU Studies above,
p. 290), such a serious contradiction could not be allowed to stand,
and after Joseph's death the embarrassing words were edited out.

   Even without these words, however, the 1838 official account is in
conflict with the 1832 version. In the 1832 account it is his Bible
reading that stirs him to seek God, while in the 1838 story it is a
non-existent revival that motivates him.

   In the 1832 version he claims to have seen only Christ, while in
the 1838 rendition both the Father and the Son appear. In the 1832
account he already knows all the churches are wrong, while in the 1838
story it is the dual deities who first inform him of this. Different
people may have different views of the same event, but when one person
tells contradictory stories about an event, he completely loses his
credibility.

PERSECUTION vs. ACCEPTANCE .....

   The 1838 First Vision story not only runs into trouble with
Joseph's earlier 1832 version, it is also contradicted by what we know
about his early years in Palmyra. In his official version Joseph
claims he was persecuted by all the churches in his area "because I
continued to affirm I had seen a vision." However, Orsemus Turner, an
apprentice printer in Palmyra until 1822, was in the same juvenile
debating club with Joseph Smith. He recalled that Joseph "after
catching a spark of Methodism ... became a very passable exhorter in
evening meetings." (HISTORY OF THE PIONEER SETTLEMENT OF PHELPS AND
GORHAM'S PURCHASE, 1851, p. 214) Thus, instead of being opposed and
persecuted as his 1838 account claims, young Joseph was welcomed and
allowed to exhort during the Methodist's evening preaching.
Furthermore, no one, either Mormon or non-Mormon, seems ever to have
heard of Joseph's encounter with two divine Personages until after
1838. (see this admission in DIALOGUE, Autumn 1966, pp. 30-31; SAINTS
HERALD, June 29, 1959, p. 21)

   From all available lines of evidence, therefore, Joseph's First
Vision story appears to be a fabrication. There was NO REVIVAL
anywhere in the Palmyra area in 1820, Joseph was WELCOMED, NOT
PERSECUTED by the Methodists. His 1832 account represents him as
PERCEIVING FROM HIS PERSONAL BIBLE STUDY that all the churches were
apostate, while his 1838 account said it "NEVER ENTERED INTO MY HEART
that all were wrong." His 1832 version claimed ONLY A VISION OF
CHRIST, while the 1838 story transformed this into THE FATHER AND THE
SON. No one ever heard such a story until after he dictated it in
1838.

   In the light of such strong contradictory evidence, the First
Vision story must be regarded as only the invention of Joseph Smith's
highly imaginative mind. The facts and Joseph's own words discredit
it.

   This work is presented with the earnest prayer that sincere people
everywhere may perceive the fallacy and danger of Mormonism and will
not become entangled in it, and that the dear Mormon people who are
unfortunately deceived by it, may be reclaimed and find the true Way
of salvation in the Bible and the blessed Saviour whom it reveals.

   "Jesus saith unto him, I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life: no
man cometh unto the Father, but by Me." (John 14:6)

   We also pray that the earnest reader upon discerning these things
will search the Word of God, the Bible, the only Book whose message is
"able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in
Christ Jesus." (II Timothy 3:15)

For Further information write:

Utah Christian Tract Society
P.O. Box 725
La Mesa, California 92041

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

=============================================================================
The purpose of the text files I have written on Mormonism is not to condemn
the Latter Day Saints, but to disprove their propaganda that Mormonism =
Christianity. For further information write: 
                         Revelation Ministries
                            P.O. Box 68204
                              Raleigh, N.C.
                                 27613
=============================================================================
               
               
                  A SHORT STUDY OF MORMONISM AND THE OCCULT   
                                                              
                     by Jeff Keith, Revelation Ministries     
                                                              
               
                       --<< Joseph Smith and Magic >>--

Joseph Smith carried many talismatic charms, and one was found in his pocket
the day he died.

According to Dr. Reed Durham, director of the LDS Institute of Religion at 
the University of Utah and President of the Mormon History Association:

        "I should like to initiate all of you into what is perhaps the
        strangest, the most mysterious, occult-like esoteric, and yet mas-
        onically oriented practice ever adopted by Joseph Smith...All avail-
        able evidence suggests that Joseph Smith the prophet possessed a 
        magical Masonic medallion, or talisman, which he worked during his
        lifetime and which was evidently on his person when he was martyred.
        .....the talisman, originally purchased from the Emma Smith Bidamon
        family, fully notarized by that family to be authentic and to have 
        belonged to Joseph Smith, can now be identified as a Jupiter Talis-
        man. It carries the sign and image of Jupiter and should more appr-
        opriately be referred to as the Table of Jupiter.....I wasn't able to
        find what this was for--as I said--two months; and finally in a magic
        book printed in England in 1801, published in America in 1804, and I
        traced it to Manchester, and to New York. It was a magic book by 
        Francis Barrett, and lo and behold, how thrilled I was when I saw in 
        his list of magic seals the very talisman which Joseph Smith had in 
        his possession at the time of his martyrdom...to the egyptians, Jupiter
        was known as Ammon, but to the Greeks he was Zues, the Ancient Sky
        Father, or Father of the Gods......Talismatic magic further declared
        that any one who worked skillfully with this Jupiter Table would 
        obtain the power of stimulating anyone to offer his love to the poss-
        eser of the talisman, whether from a friend, brother, relative, or 
        even any female." <Mormon Miscellaneous, Vol. 1, No. 1, October 1975, 
        pages 14,15>

It is important to remember that this statement came from a Mormon, The Pres-
ident of the Mormon History Association. He was severely criticized by Mormon
scholars and officials.

According to "The Complete Book of Spells, Ceremonies, and Magic" by Migene
Gonzalez-Wippler page 155:

        "Talismans are best made of the metal ascribed to each of the plan-
        etary forces, or of virgin parchment. The symbols are usually insc-
        ribed within a circle, which represents the universe as well as man."

From the same book, concerning the Jupiter Talisman specifically:

        "After the talisman is made it is magically charged through any of a
        number of methods, such as the ritual of the Invoking Pentagram. Once
        the talisman is charged it is carefully wrapped in a piece of white
        silk or linen and kept in a safe place until future use."


According to an affidavit by Charles E. Bidamon, who sold the talisman to the
Wood collection:

        "Emma Smith Bidamon the prophets widow was my foster mother. She 
        prized this piece very highly on account of it's being one of the 
        prophet's intimate possessions.
        I certify that I have many times heard her say when being interview-
        ed and showing her the piece that it was in the prophet's pocket when
        he was martyred at Carthage Ill."

According to the book, "Hyrum Smith-Patriarch", the following items were found 
on Hyrum Smith (Joseph's brother):

        Dagger. Masonic ten inch, stainless steel-wooden handle-Masonic 
        symbols on blade.
        
        Emblematic parchments-Masonic-three, original hand painted on heavy
        bodied paper-on border appears initials. "I.H.S."

        Pouch, Masonic cotton fabric 4" x 4" with draw string attached.

According to the Mormon Arthur de Hoyos:

        "One cannot help but wonder the reason why the Prophet Joseph Smith, 
        and his brother, Hyrum, the Patriarch would possess articles such as
        they did unless they actually believed that these items did possess
        some sort of supernatural power, or that they were a "key to receiv-
        ing power or protection.
        Whatever the case may be both Joseph and Hyrum did possess these 
        charms and it seems highly unlikely that there was not a legitimate
        reason for this."

                         --<< Magic and Masonry >>--

Mormon historian B.H. Roberts said concerning Joseph Smith's ancestors:

        "...it may be admitted that some of them believed in fortune telling,
        in warlocks and witches...To be credulous in such things was to be
        normal people." (A Comprehensive History of the Mormon Church, vol
        1, pages 26-27)

Fayette Lapham, who visited the Smiths around 1830, said:

        "This Joseph Smith, Senior, we soon learned, from his own lips, was 
        a firm believer in witchcraft and other supernatural things; and had
        brought up his family in the same belief.
        His son Joseph happened to be where a man was looking into a dark 
        stone and telling people, therefrom, where to dig for money and other
        things. Joseph requested the privilege of looking into the stone, 
        which he did by putting his face into a hat where the stone was. It 
        proved to be not the right stone for him, but he could see things, 
        and, among them, he saw the stone, and where it was in which he 
        could see whatever he wished to see. .....After this, Joseph Smith
        spent about two years looking into the stone, telling fortunes, where
        to find lost things, and where to dig for money and other hidden 
        treasure. (Historical Magazine, May 1870, page 306)


Joshua Stafford claimed:

        "I became acquainted with the family of Joseph Smith, Sen. about the
        year 1819 or 20. They...told marvelous stories of ghosts, hobgoblins,
        caverns, and various other mysterious matters."


Lucy Smith, Joseph's mother, revealed in her history:

        "..let not the reader suppose that...we stopt (sic) our labor and 
        went at trying to win the faculty of Abrac, drawing magic circles,
        or sooth saying, to the neglect of all kinds of business. We never in
        our entire lives suffered one important interest to swallow up every
        other obligation"

This is an admission that the Smith family was involved in The Faculty of 
Abrac. What exactly is the Faculty of Abrac?

According to Mormon answers to Skepticism, 1980, page 105:

        "Abrac, from Abracadabra and Abraxis, is a magic word or formula 
        used on amulets to work magic charms, Eighteenth century masons were 
        said to know how to conceal "the way of obtaining the faculty of 
        Abrac" which implied that they knew how to get it." 
        
In a footnote on page 116 of the same book Henry Ward said:

        "This is truly Free Masonry; the art of finding new arts, and the way
        of winning the faculty of Abrac."

In an article entitled "The Facultie of Abrac: Masonic Claims and Mormon 
Beginnings" John E. Thompson wrote:

        "In the early nineteenth century, some New York masons claimed that 
        their craft possessed many of the more esoteric secrets of the Univ-
        erse. In particular, they claimed to be able to control what James 
        Hardie called "the facultie of abrac." William Wines Phelps wrote in
        1830 that the connection between Masonry and the "facultie of abrac
        went back to the 17th century. Whether or not Phelps was correct, the
        connection between Masonry and "the facultie of abrac" obviously pre-
        dates 1818...
        Not only was the claim of a connection between Masonry and Magic known
        in the Western part of New York before the disappearance of Morgan, 
        but it was circulating specifically in the neighborhood of the Mormon
        Prophet Joseph Smith, both in the period he was writing the Book of 
        Mormon and in the earlier period of time when he was known to have had
        magical interests...
        In nearby Canandaigua, William Wines Phelps, after renouncing the 
        Masonic order in 1828, established the Anti-Masonic Ontario Pheonix.
        On April 9, 1830..Phelps received a copy of the newly published Book 
        of Mormon. About a year later, he followed the prophet West, a thor-
        ough convert, Right up to his departure, however, he was actively 
        involved with the concerns of Anti-Masonry. On August 25, 1830, for
        example, he published a piece which discussed that the the (sic) con-
        nection between Masonry and the "facultie of the abrac" in these 
        words:
                
                A very ancient Masonic Charm, or the way of winning the 
                Faculty of Abrac,- is meant the chimerical virtues ascribed
                to the magical term - ABRACADABRA, written or repeated in a
                particular manner, and is thought to be efficacious in curing
                auges, and preventing fits and other Masonic diseases.
        
        Thus we are brought at last to Masonic claims and Mormon beginnings...
        it is true that the Prophet himself was inducted into Masonry many
        years later in Nauvoo Illinios. But that was only the flowering of a 
        relationship that had it's roots in New York State prior to the publi-
        cation of the Book of Mormon. And, it now appears, that the cement 
        that brought some of the early Mormons into New York Masonry may
        have been the search to "win the faculty of abrac."
        (The Philalethes, December 1982, pages 9 and 15)

Joseph Smith used a seer stone, or peep stone in his magical operations. He 
would place this stone into his hat and "read" it to find hidden treasures,
and he used it to "translate" the Book of Mormon. Crystal gazing, or "scrying"
is a very ancient practice.

From the book "Strange Superstitions and Magical Practices":

        "Among primitive peoples there is a widespread belief in the magical
        efficacy of qaurtz crystals- one of the most common of all luminous
        stones. These mineralogical specimens are frequently the main prop
        of the magician. They are used for this purpose by the aborigines in
        Australia, Polynesia and North American, among others."

Crystal gazing is closely associated with necromancy- "the art of divination
through communication with the dead."

According to "Mormonism, Magic and Masonry" by Jerald and Sandra Tanner:

        "It is interesting to note that in the book which contains drawings
        of the two pentacles found on the Hyrum Smith (Joseph's brother)
        parchment, there is a chapter entitled "An Expiriment of the Dead".
        This chapter, which begins immediately below the two pentacles, tells
        of the process for "Conjuring for a dead spirit."

According to Joseph Capron, Joseph Smith claimed to see "infernal spirits" in
his seer stone:

        "The family of Smiths held Joseph Smith Jr. in high estimation on 
        account of some supernatural power he pretended to have received
        through the medium of a stone of peculiar quality. The stone was 
        placed in a hat, in such a manner as to exclude light, except that
        which emanated from the stone itself. This light of the stone, he
        pretended, enabled him to see anything he wished. Accordingly he dis-
        covered ghosts, infernal spirits, mountains of gold and silver, and 
        many other invaluable treasures deposited in the earth." (Mormonism
        Unveiled, page 259)

In Lucy Smith's (Joseph's mother) history, she states:

        "A short time before the house was completed, a man, by the name of
        Josiah Stowel, came from Chenango county, NY, with a view of getting
        Joseph to assist him in digging for a silver mine. He came for Joseph
        on account of having heard that he possessed certain keys, by which he
        could discern things invisible to the natural eye. (Biographical
        Sketches of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, London, 1853,pp 91-92

In State of New York versus Joseph Smith:

        "Warrant issued upon written complaint upon oath of Penter G. Bridge-
        man, who informed that one Joseph Smith of Bainbridge was a disorderly
        person and an imposter.
        Prisoner brought before Court March 20, 1826. Prisoner examined: says
        that he came from the town of Palmyra, and had been at the house of 
        Josiah Stowel in Bainbridge....That he had a certain stone which he
        had occasionally looked at to determine where hidden treasures in the
        bowels of the earth..."

In the 1826 trail, Joseph stated that "...but of late he had pretty much 
given it up (the stone) on account of its injuring his health, especially his 
eyes--made them sore;..."

From "Mormonism, Magic and Masonry":

        "Joseph Knight, an early Mormon writer, claimed that the angel who
        showed Joseph Smith the gold plates of the Book of Mormon told him
        that he could not have them until he brought the right person with 
        him to the Hill Cumorah. Knight claimed that Joseph Smith "looked
        into the glass and found it was Emma Hale, daughter of old Mr. Hale
        of Pensylvany.."

In The Book of Mormon, it is claimed that a "seer" is greater than a prophet
and that a person who has this gift can know of things in the past as well as
things that will happen in the future.

        "And Ammon said that a seer is a revelator and a prophet also; and a
        gift which is greater can no man have,...a seer can know of things
        which are past, and also of things which are to come, and by them
        shall all things be revealed,..." (Book of Mormon, Mosiah 8:16-17)

It also says, concerning a "seer stone":

        "And the Lord said: I will prepare unto my servant Gazelem, a stone,
        which shall shine forth in darkness unto light, that I may discover
        unto my people who serve me, that I may discover unto them the works
        of their brethren, yea, their secret works, their works of darkness,
        and their wickedness and abominations." (Book of Mormon, Alma 37:23)

In the original Doctrine and Covenants (one of the four standard works of the 
Mormon Church) Gazelem is identified as Joseph Smith Jr. in four different 
places; (Doctrine and Covenants, 78:9, 82:11, 104:26, 43.) In the most recent
edition, the name Gazelem has been omitted in all four places.


Hosea Stout recorded the following in his diary under the date of Feb 25, 
1856:

        "President Young exhibited the seer's stone with which the Prophet 
        Joseph discovered the Book of Mormon, to the Regents this evening"


Mormon historian B.H. Roberts confirmed that Joseph Smith used a "seer stone"
to translate the Book of Mormon:

        "The Seer Stone referred to here was a chocolate colored, somewhat
        egg shaped stone which the Prophet found while digging a well in 
        company with his brother Hyrum, for a Mr. Clark Chase, near Palmyra,
        N.Y. It possessed the qualities of Urim and Thummim, since by means of
        it-- as well as by means of the interpreters found with the Nephite
        record, Joseph was able to translate the characters engraven on the 
        plates." (Comprehensive History of The Church)

Joseph Smith's mother gave a very unusual description of the Urim and Thummim:

        "..it consisted of two smooth three-cornered diamonds set in glass, and
        the glasses were set in silver bows, which were connected with each
        other in much the same way as old fashioned spectacles." (Biographical
        Sketches of Joseph Smith,1853, page 101)

In "The Rocky Mountain Saints" printed in 1873, T.B.H. Stenhouse related:

        "..the author has received the following communication from a gentlem-
        an who has been about thirty years associated with Mormonism, and who
        personally knew well the Prophet:
        Joseph Smith was no more and no less than a `spirit medium'--more
        impressional than clairvoyant or clairaudient..."

               --<< The Smith Family and Magic Practices >>--


According to "Satanism, A Guide to the Awesome Power of Satan" page 206 by 
Wade Baskin:


        MAGIC CIRCLE: "A diagram drawn around an object or a person prior to
        a magic operation. The circle, drawn around the karcist with a new
        sword, symbolizes the separation of the wizard from the infernal pow-
        ers."


According to "Magic- The western Tradition" page 12


        "The magician prepared his vestments, wands, and other magical weap-
        ons, purified both them and himself, drew a circle...and summoned the
        spirit into the triangle which lay outside the circle, outside the 
        integrity of the magician's individuality. Once the spirit had appear-
        ed the magician had to master it, to make it his servant; should he
        fail to do so, and the spirit succeed in leaving its triangle and 
        entering the circle of art. the magician would be torn to pieces."

Joseph Capron tells this of Joseph in "Mormonism Unveiled" pages 259-260.


        "The sepient Joseph discovered, north west of my house, a chest of
        gold watches; but, as they were in possession of the evil spirit, it
        required skill and strategem to obtain them. Accordingly, orders were
        given to stick a parcel of large stakes in the ground, several rods 
        around, in a circular form. This was to be done directly over the 
        spot where the treasures were deposited. A messenger was then sent to
        Palmyra to procure a polished sword: after which, Samuel F. Lawrence,
        with a drawn sword in his hand, marched around to qaurd any assault
        which his Satanic majesty might be disposed to make."


William Stafford gave this in his affidavit concerning Joseph Sr.:


        " Joseph Sen. first made a circle, twelve or fourteen feet in diamet-
        er. The circle, said he, contains the treasure. He then stuck in the
        ground a row of witch hazel sticks, around the said circle, for the 
        purpose of keeping off the evil spirits. Within this circle he made
        another, of about eight or ten feet in diameter. He walked around 
        three times on the periphery of this last circle, muttering to himself
        something which I could not understand. He next stuck a steel rod in
        the centre of the circles, and then enjoined profound silence upon us,
        lest we should arouse the evil spirits who had the charge of these
        treasures. After we had dug a trench about five feet in depth around 
        the rod, the old man by signs and motions, asked leave of absence, and
        went to the house to inquire of young Joseph the cause of our dissap-
        ointment. He soon returned and said, that Joseph had remained all the
        time in the house, looking in his stone and watching the motion of
        the evil spirit-that he saw the spirit come up to the ring and as soon
        as it beheld the cone which we had formed around the rod, it caused
        the money to sink."  (William Stafford's affidavit, pages 237-239)


            --<< Joseph Smith and Blood Sacrifices to Demons >>--


From "Satanism, A Guide to the Awesome Power of Satan":


        "From time immemorial blood has been regarded as a vital agent and 
        has figured prominently in ritual sacrifices. The Greeks poured 
        blood into graves to revive the spirits of the dead. Demons are said
        to love blood."


From "The Greater Key of Solomon" page 122:

        "In many operations it is necessary to make some sort of sacrifice
        unto the Demons, and in various ways...Such sacrifices consist of the
        blood and sometimes of the flesh."

        "Sometimes white animals are sacrificed to the good spirits and black
        to the evil."


From William Stafford's affidavit:

        "Joseph Jr. had discovered some very remarkable and valuable treasures
        which could be procured in only one way. That way, was as follows-That
        a black sheep should be taken on to the ground where the treasures
        were concealed- that after cutting its throat, it should be led around
        a circle while bleeding. This being done, the wrath of the evil spirit
        would be appeased."


C.R. Stafford testified concerning the same incident:


        "Jo Smith, the prophet, told my uncle, William Stafford, he wanted a
        fat black sheep. He said he wanted to cut its throat and make it walk 
        around in a circle three times and it would prevent a pot of money
        from leaving." {Naked Truths about Mormonism, Jan 1888, page 3}


From "A New Witness for Christ in America", by Francis W. Kirkham, 1959, Vol
2, pages 366-67, Concerning a treasure dig:


        "One of the men placed his hand upon the box, but it gradually sunk
        from his reach. After some five feet in depth had been attained with-
        out success, a council of war against this spirit of darkness was 
        called, and they resolved that the lack of faith, or some untoward
        mental emotion, was the cause of their failure.
        In this emergency the fruitful mind of Smith was called on to devise
        a way to obtain the prize. Mr. Stowell went to his flock and selected
        a fine vigorous lamb, and resolved to sacrifice it to the demon 
        spirit, who guarded the treasure. Shortly after the venerable Deacon
        might be seen on his knees at prayer near the pit, while Smith, with 
        a lantern in one hand to dispel the midnight darkness might be seen
        making a circuit around the spot, sprinkling the flowing blood from 
        the lamb upon the ground, as a propititation to the spirit that 
        thwarted them."


From The Book of Mormon:

        
        "And ye shall offer up to me no more the shedding of blood; yea, your
        sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will
        accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt offerings." {3 Nephi 
        9:19}


However, Joseph Smith later wrote:


        "These sacrifices, as well as every ordinance belonging to the Priest-
        hood, will, when the Temple of the Lord shall be built, and the sons
        of Levi be purified, be fully restored and attended to in all their
        powers, ramifications, and blessings." {History of the Church, Vol. 4,
        page 211}


Lastly, according to "Mormonism, Magic and Masonry" by Jerald and Sandra
Tanner, Wandle Mace, a devout Mormon, recorded this statement in his journal:


        "Joseph told them to go to Kirkland, and cleanse and purify a certain
        room in the Temple, that they must kill a lamb and offer a sacrifice
        unto the Lord which should prepare them to ordain William Richards,
        a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles." {Journal of Wandle
        Mace, page 32, microfilmed copy at Brigham Young University}




               --<< Fighting Devils for The Book of Mormon >>--


In Lippincott's Magazine, 1880, pp 200-201:


        "It is recorded that after the prize had been delivered to the 
        prophet by angels his eyes were opened and he saw legions of devils
        struggling with a celestial host to keep the plates concealed. On his
        return to Susquehanna with a bandaged head, Smith gave out that he had
        an encounter with the chief devil, and had been severely wounded by a
        blow struck from the shoulder."


One of the witnesses to The Book of Mormon, Oliver Cowdery, stated that when
Joseph Smith first went to the hill Cumorah he: 

        "beheld the Prince of darkness surrounded by his innumerable trains 
        of associates." {Messenger and Advocate, Vol. 2, p 198}












=============================================================================
The purpose of the text files I have written on Mormonism is not to condemn
the Latter Day Saints, but to disprove their propaganda that Mormonism =
Christianity. For further information write: 
                      

                     
                         Revelation Ministries 
                            P.O. Box 68204     
                              Raleigh, N.C.     
                                 27613          
                      
                           
=============================================================================
                               REFERENCES USED:
         _Mormonism, Magic, and Masonry_ by Jerald and Sandra Tanner
       _Satanism, A Guide to the Awesome Power of Satan_ by Wade Baskin
_The Complete Book of Spells, Ceremonies & Magic_ by Migene Gonzalez-Wippler

Much information was obtained from the work of Jerald and Sandra Tanner, 
founders of Utah Lighthouse Ministry, Box 1884, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84110.
                   

      TABLE OF CONTENTS

What's Going on in There?
About the Authors
Preface

PART 1

EXPLANATION AND COMMENTARY

Introduction

 Why work for the Dead?
 Mormon's Goal: To be a "Savior on Mount Zion" To Christians and Other 
 Lost Souls
 All Temples Would Close Without Genealogical Research
 Satan Always Trademarks His Wares
 The Holy Melchizedek Priesthood: the Only Authority to Act for God
 The Mormon Bible Contradicts Their Priesthood Claims
 Ordinances for the Living
 Ordinances for the Dead

An Overview of the Mormon Temple Ceremonies

 Pre-Initiatory Ordinances for the Dead
 Baptism for the Dead
 Confirmation as Mormons and the Holy Ghost
 Ordination to the Mormon Holy Melchizedek Priesthood

 Initiatory Ordinances for the Living and the Dead
 Washing in Water
 Anointing with Holy Oil
 Clothing in the Mystical Temple Garment
 The "New Name"
 The Ultimate Heresy -- Eternal Sexism

Preparation for the Endowment

 The Endowment Ceremony
 The Creation Drama
 The Garden of Eden Drama
 The Lone and Dreary World Melodrama
 The Christian Minister is Satan's Hireling Lackey
 The Terrestrial World Presentation
 The One and Only "True Order of Prayer"

 The "True Order of Prayer" Resembles Ancient Rituals
 The Veil of the Temple
 The Veil Ceremony
 The Five Points of Fellowship
 The Celestial Room

 Marriage for Time and Eternity
 Sealing of Children to Parents
 Proxy Sealing Sessions

 Summary of the Secrets of the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood
 Bestowed in the Endowment
 The Five Laws
 The Four Tokens (handclasps) - With Accompanying Names
 The Four Signs and Three Penalties
 The Oath of Vengeance Against the United States
 The Garment of the Holy Priesthood - Four Marks
 The Mormon Magic Talisman Protects From Evil Powers

 The Historical Origins of the Endowment
 The Faithful Must Be Buried in Their Temple Costume
 The Significance of Jesus and Christianity in the Temple Rituals
 Mormon Women Seek Glorious Joy in ETERNAL PREGNANCY
 The Endowment Attacks and Ridicules Paid Christian Clergymen, BUT Mormonism 
 Has Paid Clergymen (and women) Too!!
 Baptism for the Dead is From Twisting Scriptures
 Freemasonry in the Mormon Temple
 Masonic Symbols and Elements Used in the Temple Rituals
 Immorality and Sexual Activity in the Temple Rituals
 Half of Qualified Mormons Don't Participate
 Moroni Tells the World That Mormons Have "A Different Gospel"
 Poor Moroni -- He's Blowing the Wrong Tune
 The Purpose of God: Mormon vs. Christian
 Mormons Deserve to Know

PART II

THE TEMPLE CEREMONIES VERBATIM

The Pre-Initiatory Ordinances

 Baptism for the Dead
 Confirmation for the Dead
 Ordination for the Dead

The Initiatory Ordinances
 Preparation for Participation
 The Washing and Anointing Room
 Washing in Water
 Confirmation of Washing
 Anointing with Holy Oil
 Confirmation of Anointing
 Receiving the "Garment of the Holy Priesthood" and the "New Name"
 Preparation for the Endowment
 Entering the Endowment Room

The Endowment Ceremony

 Introduction and Instruction
 The Creation
 The First Day
 The Second Day
 The Third Day
 The Fourth Day
 The Fifth Day
 The Sixth Day
 The Garden of Eden
 The Law of Obedience
 The Law of Sacrifice
 The First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood
 The Lone and Dreary World
 Elohim Sends Down Messengers
 Elohim Sends Down Peter, James & John in Their True Characters
 Satan is Cast Out
 The Law of the Gospel
 The Robes of the Holy Priesthood
 The Terrestrial World
 The Law of Chastity
 The First Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, or Sign of the Nail
 The Law of Consecration
 The Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip, 
 of Sure Sign of the Nail
 Lecture Before the Veil
 The "True Order of Prayer"
 The Veil of the Temple
 The Instructions at the Veil
 Moving to the Terrestrial Room
 The Ceremony at the Veil
 The Celestial Room

Marriage or Sealing for Time and Eternity
 The Marriage Ceremony
 Sealing of Children to Parents
 Proxy Sealing Sessions

Conclusion

 List of Figures
 Acknowledgements
 Dedication

   WHAT'S GOING ON IN HERE?

   This booklet has been prepared to inform the general public,
including most Mormons, and especially the Body of Christians,
and to reveal to them of exactly what transpires during the
secret Mormon Temple Ceremonies.  Our purpose is not to ridicule,
but to shed light on these hidden things of darkness.  We
sincerely believe that Mormons and non-Mormons alike cannot
comprehend or accurately evaluate the complex Mormon gospel
without knowing what actually transpires inside of the Temple,
the place where the Keys of Knowledge necessary for exaltation
are imparted to LDS Gods in embryo.  We pray earnestly that this
information will be especially helpful in encouraging Christians
in their witness of the true Lord Jesus Christ to those lost in
the deception and bondage Mormonism.

      AUTHOR'S PREFACE

   This booklet contains the entire series of Mormon Temple
ceremonies, called "Ordinances" and is 100% accurate in the
essence of what is done, and very nearly 100% accurate in the
exact wording of what is said.  This is because this edition was
transcribed from a tape recording made inside the Temple at the
actual Endowment ceremony*.  Other ceremonies have been verified
by comparing them with copies of Temple Worker Instruction Books

*This booklet is purposely not copyrighted and may be copied or
used in any way deemed appropriate.

   The tape recording of the Mormon Temple Endowment from which
this booklet was transcribed was recorded in the Los Angeles
Mormon Temple.  The recording was made using a personal pocket
size tape recorder carried by one of the patrons during Endowment
presentation.

   The patron who made this recording entered the Temple using his
own personal Temple Recommend and carried his own Temple Veil
Worker's name tag and identification card during the ceremony.
He was greeted by several Temple Worker acquaintances who
obviously did not know of his excommunication from the Mormon
Church, which had been at his own request several months earlier.

   One of the objectives of this foray was to test the well known
Mormon claim of Divinely aided Temple security.  Another
objective was to provide and up-to-date and accurate text of the
Endowment.  (There have been many revisions to the Endowment text
in the past ten years, some of them significant).  Contrary to
popular belief of Mormons, not one person in the Temple appeared
the slightest bit spiritually or supernaturally alerted to the
presence among them of one whom they classify as an "apostate"
and a "son of perdition".  As he departed, the patron was
encouraged by a member of the Temple Presidency to return again
soon.

   Or similar authentic sources, making this the most accurate and
up to date rendition of these "secret" ceremonies ever published
in the 120 year history of Mormon Temple exposes.  The ceremonies
have been annotated and explanatory information included to help
the reader understand the activities as they progress.  Part one
contains background information and commentary, including a brief
overview of all of the ceremonies in sequence to prepare the
reader to understand the dialogue of the ceremonies.

   Even though we know that the Authorities of the Mormon church,
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City,
Utah, will be highly offended at the publication of this work, we
do not apologize for doing it.  As former Mormons and Temple
Workers who are now born again Christians, we acknowledge a great
responsibility to the unsuspecting world to expose and reprove
with exactness and the light of truth, precisely what activities
transpire inside the Mormon temples today.

   We heed the admonition of the Apostle Paul to the Ephesian
Saints, who had previously participated in similar pagan and
occultic rituals, "For ye were sometimes (once) darkness, but now
ye are light in the Lord, walk as children of light ...  and have
no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather
reprove (expose) them ...  for it is a shame even to speak of
those things which are done of them in secret.  But all things
that are reproved (exposed) are made manifest by the light."
(Ephesians 5:8, 11-13) We recognize that this is not the first
such "expose", but it is the most accurate and current account of
the activities of the Mormon temple "Endowment"ever published.
We wish to bring it to the attention of concerned people
everywhere so that they may be knowledgable concerning this, the
most sacred of all activities and teachings to the modern Mormon
(see John 18:20).  Mormonism cannot be fully understood by
Mormons or non-Mormons alike without an understanding these
Temple rituals - the "Keystone" of modern Mormon doctrine and
theology.

   Statistics released in January 1982, by qualified Mormon church
authorities indicated that at least three out of every four
Mormons (teenage and older) have never participated in these
rituals.  These non-participating Mormons have been subjected to
a variety of powerful propaganda from their leaders, impressing
upon them the sacred, holy, and enlightning nature of their
Temple "Ordinances", and the great blessings to be obtained
through them.  This booklet is intended especially for those non-
participating Mormons, to enable them to recognized the occultic,
non-Christian nature of these rituals, and to see them for them-
selves in the clear light of reality.  We are confident that
those who will prayerfully evaluate these rites for themselves
will be able to see them as they truly are, rather than
continuing in the naive belief that they are the sacred vehicle
essential to becoming a polygamous god, destined to rule over a
new planet for eternity.

   Mormons who regularly attend the Temple should also be very
interested in this booklet.  They will be "dying to find out" if
it really contains a "word perfect" rendition of all the Temple
rituals, and anxious to find a misplaced word so they can
criticize its accuracy.  We are pleased to give them the
opportunity, with a challenge to call to our attention any errors
they believe they detect.  We also challenge them to listen more
attentatively while attending the Temple, and to compare what
they hear with the Bible or the Book of Mormon, which teach an
entirely different Gospel and plan of salvation from that
presented in the Temple Endowment.

   Anyone who is familiar with the rite of Freemasonry will
recognize them as the primary source for the tokens, signs, and
penalties used in the Temple Endowment.  Much of the mystical
symbolism of Mormonism is also borrowed from Masonry.  The
symbolism and practices of the ancient pagan mystery religions
associated with nimrod and Babylon are also richly displayed in
the Mormon temple and reflected in the doctrines presented
therein.  Part one of this booklet contains commentary comparing
these Mormon rituals with those of other religions and
theologies, including Christianity.

   PART ONE - EXPLANATION AND COMMENTARY
   INTRODUCTON

   Mormon Temples are the most secret/sacred facet of Mormonism and
are completely different from neighborhood Mormon chapels.  Once
a new Temple is dedicated, no non-Mormons are ever allowed
inside.  Most Mormons are not permitted to enter the Temple
either.  Only Mormons who have passed stringent requirements of
worthiness determined by a penetrating private interview with
their Bishop, and then a second similar interview with their
Stake President, are issued a "Temple Recommend" which permits
them to enter the Temple (See figure 1).  Temple Recommends are
valid for one year after which the entire interview process must
be repeated to receive a new Recommend.  According to LDS church
leaders, less than 20% of adult Mormons have valid Temple Recom
mends and thus are qualified to attend the temple.  Less than 10%
of adult Mormons regularly attend the Temple.**

   Before a Mormon is issued his first Temple Recommend, he is
normally required to attend a course of study intended to
qualify him to "live worthy" or to become qualified to live LDS
standards of loyalty, dedication, financial contributions and
personal traits of worthiness.  Very little of the ceremonial
aspects, and none of the promises or penalties of the Temple
rituals are included in the ciriculum nor are these ever discus
sed at any time outside or inside of the Temple.  These are still
a mystery to the participants, who are acting on faith in Joseph
Smith and the Mormon church's divine authority.

   During a member's first participation in the Temple ceremony, he
"receives his own endowments" which means he attends to his own
personal salvation requirements.  In a special instruction ses
sion with all the initiates he is asked by the Temple President
to make a personal commitment to return to the temple often, at
least once per month, to renew his own commitment and to remind
him of his covenants while he is serving as a proxy for a

   **See the Church News supplement to the Salt Lake City Deseret
News, week of January 16, 1982, page 10 for very interesting
information on Mormon dedication to this "Keystone of their
religion."
deceased person to provide that person with Mormon salvation.  He
thus becomes a "Savior on Mount Zion" by acting in behalf of
someone who did not have this opportunity himself.

  WHY WORK FOR THE DEAD?

Mormons believe that everyone who lives and dies on this earth
goes to a place called the Spirit Prison, except faithful
Mormons, who go to Paradise.  Mormon Spirit Missionaries go down
from Paradise to the Spirit Prison and teach the Gospel of Joseph
Smith to the lost Christians and others there.  Those who accept
Mormonism must remain in prison until a worthy Mormon performs
certain essential rituals, called "Ordinances" for them in one of
the Mormon Temples.  Then they are released from Spirit Prison to
join the Mormons in Paradise.  Since these rituals or Ordinances
require a physical body to be washed, anointed, baptised, etc.,
they can only be performed by a living person in the place and
manner prescribed by Diety, acting under Universal (Mormon)
cosmic laws.

   MORMONS GOAL: TO BE A "SAVIOR ON MOUNT ZION"
   TO CHRISTIANS AND OTHER LOST SOULS

   The extent of the pressure upon worthy Mormons to return to the
Temple as often as possible to perform more of these proxy Temple
rituals is difficult to convey.  They are continually reminded of
their responsibility to all of the multitude of dead persons
waiting in "Spirit Prison" for their "work" to be done.  They
believe they are personally becoming "Saviors on Mount Zion" to
each individual for whom they perform these rites, and all of
those who accepted Mormonism will be waiting for them in
Paradise, to greet them and heap thanks and praise upon them for
having done this work in their behalf, which released them from
the "Spirit Prison".

   ALL TEMPLES WOULD CLOSE WITHOUT GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH

   The operation of all Mormon Temples is totally dependent upon
continuing genealogical research.  Mormons spend millions of
hours and scores of millions of dollars annually doing exhaustive
personal genealogical research to correctly identify their
deceased progenitors so that these secret ordinances can be
performed for them in one of the Temples.  Since they do not
provide enough names to keep the Temples busy, the church has a
massive "name extraction" program which provides the bulk of the
individuals for whom patrons serve as proxies.  Mormons spent
over ten million man hours, at approximately two and one half
hours per person, performing these rituals for the dead last
year.  The investment of the church in genealogical facilities,
equipment, and manpower is staggering to the imagination,
employing several thousand persons, plus even more volunteers,
and hundreds of millions of dollars invested.  Christian churches
kept nearly all of the early U.S.  and European vital records
which are used for genealogical research.  Therefore most Temple
work is being done to make dead Christians Mormons.  If your
Christian ancestors were West European, or settled in the U.S.  by
the early 1800's, they probably have been or soon will be made
Mormons in one of these Temples.  This unique doctrine and
practice of Mormonism attracts many converts to the church for
the sake of their unsaved, departed loved ones.

   Mormons are continually reminded that their own personal
exaltation, which is equivalent to a Christians salvation, is
dependent upon their "good works".  One of these essential works
is making certain that all of the Temple Ordinances are performed
for each one of their dead ancestors which they are able, through
all diligent effort, to identify and thus qualify to receive
them.  They are also responsible for doing this work for the
world's departed masses.  A lifetime of diligent church service
and good works is wasted if they neglect this responsibility to
provide these names, and perform these rituals for their dead.
Most mormons are not aware of the only New Testament references
to genealogy in Titus 3:9 and I Timothy 1:4, both of which
condemn it as foolishness and ungodly.

   SATAN TRADEMARKS HIS WARES

   In Anton LeVeh's Satanic Bible, under "Infernal Names", "Mormon"
is listed as "God of the ghouls", which are the living dead.  His
consort is "Hecate - Goddess of the underworld and witchcraft";
his followers are known as MORMONS.  With the Mormon pre-
occupation with ancestor research and work for the dead in their
Temples, one has to question whether this is an amazing
coincidence, or one of Satan's brash signals to the wary.  Mormon
Missionaries in Hong Kong must use caution because 'Mormon' means
"Gates of Hell" in Chinese, another amazing coincidence, or
brash danger signal.  Satan, the supreme egotist, always
trademarks his products; let the proselyte beware.

  THE HOLY MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD:
  THE ONLY AUTHORITY TO ACT FOR GOD

   Mormons claim sole custody of the "Holy Melchizedek Priesthood"
described in the book of Hebrews.  All activities of the Mormon
church function under the direction and authority of this
supposed Priesthood.  Mormons claim theirs is the only authority
to act for God in the entire universe, and aggressively dispute
Roman Catholic and Masonic claims to this same Priesthood.  The
Temple Rituals are called the "Higher Ordinances of the
Malchizedek Priesthood, as do all the other church auxilliary
organizations.

   Mormons claim to trace their "Priesthood Authority" directly to
Jesus much like they trace their ancestry through genealogy.
Every Mormon Priesthood holder has his personal "Line of
Authority" documented, and when he performed an ordinance such as
baptism, it is customary for him to present a printed copy of
this "Priesthood Lineage" to the person receiving the ordinance.
This Priesthood is bestowed upon all male members over 18 years
of age who have shown their "worthiness" by good works and
faithfulness to the Mormon Church.  They receive it by "Laying on
of hands" by men who have received their Priesthood in the same
way, thus extending this "Line of Authority".  This line is
always traced back through Brigham Young, Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdry, and the Apostles Peter, James and John, who supposedly
brought it to Joseph and Oliver directly from Jesus Christ.

   THE MORMON BIBLE CONTRADICTS THEIR PRIESTHOOD CLAIMS

   Mormons use only the authorized King James Version of the Bible
in their Missionary work and worship services.  Joseph Smith's
"Inspired Version", which belongs to the Reorganized LDS church,
contains many substantive changes to the King James text.  It is
intentionally shielded by the Utah Mormon church from public
discussion and exposure, though it is used selectively in their
teachings.  The Mormon church prints and widely uses its own King
James Version containing special Mormon study guides, reference
sections, and the official LDS church name and insignia.  Reading
in this official Mormon King James Missionary Bible, 1968
edition, in Hebrews, concerning the resurrected Lord and these
Priesthoods, we find that it says Jesus in NOW the sole and only
holder of the Melchizedek Priesthood, and that the Aaronic
Priesthood has been forever abolished.  It states, "But this man
(Jesus), because he continueth ever, hath and unchangeable
priesthood." (Hebrews 7:24) The footnote for 'unchangeable'
states: "or, which passeth not from one to another* (Author's
emphasis).  The original Greek word, aparabatos, used here means
"perpetually non-transferable" or "Untransferable forever." How
can Mormons continue passing it on anyway? By simply ignoring
their own Bible!! Since they believe it is only true as far as
translated correctly, and the Book of Mormon says it is full of
errors and ommission,they can easily ignore what they don't like.
Please read Hebrews chapters 7 and 8 to understand how completely
defiant of God's word the Mormon Priesthoods really are.

*This marginal note has been removed from the latest edition
Missionary Bible.

   ORDINANCES FOR THE LIVING

   The Ordinances for living Mormons include Washing, Anointing,
Clothing in the Garment of the Holy Priesthood, and the Endow
ment.  Sealings are performed for married couples, and minor
children are then Sealed to parents.  Marriages are performed for
time and eternity, and under special circumstances, marriages for
time only.  These ceremonies account for less than 2% of all
Temple Ordinances performed.

   ORDINANCES FOR THE DEAD

   The ordinances for the deceased ancestors of members or names of
deceased persons provided by the temple from genealogical records
include Baptism, Confirmation of membership in the Mormon Church,
and Ordination to the Holy Melchizedek (Mormon) Priesthood for
males.  All the ordinances described above for the living must
also be performed for each of the dead persons who are post
humously receiving their "Temple Blessings".  Over 98% if the
Ordinances performed are for the dead by a living Mormon proxy.
The writer performed approximately 150 Endowments for deceased
relatives and many other identified persons known to the writer,
as part of over 1000 Ordinances performed in a nearly ten year
period.

   AN OVERVIEW OF THE MORMON TEMPLE CEREMONY

   This information is new to most of the readers of this booklet
and may be difficult to grasp at times, therefore, we have pre
pared the following overview of these Temple Ceremonies to let
you preview the activities and to concisely present the important
elements to you.

   Mormons attending the Temple are called "patrons" by the Temple
staff, and will therefore be similarly designated hereafter in
this publication.  Quotation marks enclose direct quotes from the
ceremony.

   THE PRE-INITIATORY ORDINANCES OR RITUAL

   The "Pre-Initiatory Ordinances" or rituals are those that are
performed only for the dead in the Temple.  Living Mormons
receive these Ordinances in their local Ward or Stake organiza
tions.

   BAPTISM

   Baptism is the first ceremony performed in behalf of the dead in
the Temple.  This is performed in the beautiful baptismal font
mounted on the statues of 12 full sized oxen, located in the
Temple basement.*(See figure 2) The Officiator and the patron
are in the font dressed in heavy white jump-suits.  There are two
or more Witnesses observing the procedure.  Often a closed cir
cuit T.V.  is used to project the names of the deceased persons on
a large T.V.  screen.  Typically 200-300 baptisms are performed
per hour, with LDS teenagers serving as proxies to introduce them
into the Temple rituals and vicarious Ordinance work at an
impressionable age.  The baptismal pronouncement is recited in
full for each baptism, and the patron is completely immersed by
the Officiator as observed and approved by the two Witnesses.

   CONFIRMATION AS MORMONS AND THE HOLY GHOST

   The next ritual is Confirmation for the Dead.  This makes the
deceased person a member of the Mormon church and gives him the
Holy Ghost.  This is usually performed at or near the baptismal
font, by the same persons who performed the baptism ritual.  Two
or more Temple Workers place their hands on the patron's head
while one pronounces the confirmation.

   ORDINATION TO THE MORMON HOLY MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD

   The ordination of dead males to the Mormon "Holy Melchizedek
Priesthood" is usually(but not always) performed in the same area
of the Temple by the same proxy.  A patron may not receive a proxy
Ordinance which he has not received for himself.  Therefore LDS
teenagers who have not yet received this Ordination may not
perform this Temple Ordinance, and adult male patrons must
receive this by proxy.  This is often performed in conjunction
with the Initiatory Ordinances described next.  Other Temple
Workers perform this Ordinance following the Baptism and Confir
mation.  Two Temple Workers lay their hands upon the patron's
head and one of them pronounces the Ordination.

   *All Mormon Temples from Nauvoo, Illinois in 1842 to the twenty
presently operating Temples have or had baptismal fonts as
described, always located below ground level, as Joseph Smith
instructed (Doctrine & Covenants 128:13).  It appears that the
new generation of Temples presently under construction or
planned, will abandon this "prophetic directive".  Plans for
these Temples show baptismal fonts above ground level with only
six oxen in a semi-circle supporting them.  See Church News,
January 16, 1982, page 14.

   INITIATORY ORDINANCES OR RITUAL

   WASHING IN WATER

   Each patron is ceremonially washed so that he "may become clean
from the blood and sins of this generation." A Temple Worker wets
his fingers in running water and touches each member of the
patrons body as he pronounces a blessing upon it.  Women Temple
Workers wash female patrons, and men wash men.  The worker starts
at the top of the patron's head and works down to the feet,
reaching under the shield to touch shoulders, back, breast,
vitals and bowels, and loins.  The washing is sealed by two
workers laying their hands on the patron's head and pronouncing
the sealing.

   ANOINTING WITH HOLY OIL

   Each patron is then anointed with consecrated oil preparatory to
"becoming a King and a Priest (or a Queen and Priestess) unto the
Most High God, hereafter to rule and reign in the House of Israel
forever." A Temple Worker pours some drops of oil on the top of
the patron's head and moistens his fingers in oil and then
touches each member of the patron's body as he pronounces a
blessing upon it, reaching under the shield to anoint shoulders,
back, breast, vitals and bowels, and loins.  Two workers then
place their hands in the patron's head and one of them pronounces
a sealing of the anointing.

   CLOTHING IN THE MYSTICAL TEMPLE GARMENT

   The patron is then dressed in the "Garment of the Holy
Priesthood" as a Temple Worker gives him special instructions
regarding the constant wearing of it 24 hours per day throughout
his life: "It will be a shield and a protection to you from the
power of the destroyer until you have finished your work on the
earth, providing you do not defile it, but are true and faithful
to your covenants." The worker also gives instructions regarding
the secret "New Name" and then whispers the "New Name" to the
patron.

   THE "NEW NAME"

   A Mormon's most secret and cherished possession should be his
"new name" which he receives during the Temple Rituals.  This is
the name by which he "will be called forth on the morning of the
First Resurrection" by his God, and by which he will be known
throughout Eternity.  He receives this from a Temple Worker, in a
whisper, as he is being helped into his new "magic underwear" for
the first time, during his Temple initiation.  Each time he
returns to do Temple work he will go through these same rituals
for a dead person, whose name he will carry through the entire
ceremony on a little slip of paper, which he surrenders to the
Introducer at the Temple Veil, before he enters the Celestial
Room.  On these return visits he will normally by-pass the
"Washing, Annointing, and Clothing in the Garment of the Holy
Priesthood" rituals, and just receive the "New Name" in a little
booth as he leaves the locker room on his way to the theatre type
Endowment Rooms.  The "New Name" is usually Biblical, such as
Abraham, Moses, Seth, or Mary, Martha, Naomi, or they come from
the Book of Mormon.  Many Mormons are not aware that every person
attending the Endowment on a particular day receives the same
male or female "new name", or its alternate.  The alternate is
given when the first given name of the person receiving the
Endowment, deceased or alive, (not the proxy) is the same, or
sounds very similar to the "new name".  My son and I share the
same "new name" of Enoch with the prophet Joseph Smith Jr.  and
probably millions of other living and dead Mormons.  I often
wondered how we would know which "Enoch" was being called forth,
or if we would all be judged together enmasse.

   THE ULTIMATE HERESY - ETERNAL SEXISM

   A Mormon husband must know his wife's (or wives') "new name(s)".
He normally learns this by representing the Lord behind the Veil,
and taking his wife through the Veil Ceremony when she is
receiving her own Endowments.  She is not allowed to know his
"new name" under any circumstances.  This is because the Lord
calls forth only the Priesthood holder, and it is up to him to
call forth his wives, if he wants them, or leave them behind if
he doesn't want some of them.

   PREPARATION FOR THE ENDOWMENT

   The patron returns to the locker room, removes the shield and
dresses of the Temple Garment, in the white Temple attire; pants,
shirt, belt, tie, socks and slippers, or slip, dress, hose and
slippers.  He then takes his name slip and the package containing
his robe, girdle (sash), hat (veil for women), and bright green
fig-leaf apron with him through the beautiful foyer, up the
magnificent circular staircase, and into the theatre type
Endowment Room.  He is seated by the Officiator who presides over
the presentation, women on the left, men on the right, and waits
in profound silence for the ceremony to begin.  Absolute silence
is maintained for up to 20 minutes while the company is
assembling.

   THE ENDOWMENT CEREMONY

   The Endowment is a two hour drama-ritual-ceremony presented to
groups of patrons, rather than individually, as most of the other
rituals are done.  It is performed in beautiful theatre type
rooms, where walls are covered with floor to ceiling murals
depicting appropriate scenes.  The performance is a basic 19th
century melodrama, with Lucifer as the villian, Elohim as the
hero, and Adam and Eve as the victims.  Supporting roles are
played by the Apostles Peter, James and John, a Christian
Minister, Jehovah, and the arch-angel Michael (who becomes Adam).
All of the secret names, signs, tokens, penalties, the "True
Order of Prayer", and the Veil Ceremony are incorporated into the
dramatic performance, with some audience participation, and a
"Witness Couple" participating as representatives of the entire
audience.  The patrons are tested by the Lord, and must
individually demonstrate their knowledge of the secrets in order
to complete the ritual.  For over a century, live actors played
the various roles with interesting props and costumes.  Now all
Temples have changed to a motion picture and tape recording
presentation in which the Officiator, who presides over the
presentation, rarely speaks.  Several Temple Workers are present
during the performance to administer the secret elements named
above, and to help patrons don and change the special robes and
other attire, where needed.  Before the movie version, the
patrons move enmasse to four differently muralled rooms to
receive the various portions of the rituals.  Now they stay in
one room for approximately one and one-half hours, watching the
film or the Officiator as he pantomimes the tape recording.  The
Endowment can be divided into four "acts" according to the four
rooms previously used: the Creation drama, the Garden of Eden
drama, the Lone and Dreary World drama, and the Terrestrial World
presentation.

   THE CREATION DRAMA

   This can best be described as a consciousness lowering, mood
altering experience.  The movie shows hypnotic type scenes of
volcanoes and lava flows, ocean, animal and flower scenes, as the
dialog drones through a very monotonous and repititious descrip
tion of the first five creative periods.  Elohim, the head God,
sends his agents, Jehovah and Michael (the arch-angel) down to do
all the creative work, but one day at a time.  He requires that
they return each day and give him a report of their activities,
and receive further instructions, because he is a man with a
body, and cannot tell what they are doing, nor see or hear beyond
normal distances.  Many patrons are asleep, and most are drowsy
at the completion of this act.

   THE GARDEN OF EDEN DRAMA

   Elohim actually comes down to earth with Jehovah to create bodies
for Michael, who becomes Adam, and Eve.  Adam and Eve are placed
in the garden by Elohim, are tempted by Lucifer, and Eve secumbs
and eats the forbidden fruit.  Eve convinces Adam to partake
also, then recognizes who Lucifer really is.  Lucifer instructs
Adam and Eve to make fig-leaf aprons to cover their nakedness
when they hear Elohim and Jehovah coming.  All the patrons don
bright green fig-leaf aprons with Adam and Eve, which they
continue to wear over all of Elohim's Priesthood attire
throughout the remainder of the rituals.  Elohim is outraged, and
curses Lucifer, who according to LDS doctrine will never have a
body, to crawl on his belly and eat dust forever.  Lucifer defys
him to his face, and ignores his curse throughout the following
scenes.  He is cast out, then Adam and Eve are cast out with him,
to join him, but only after they make a secret covenant with
Elohim, and receive a secret token (handgrip), with its name,
sign and penalty (blood/death oath).

   THE LONE AND DREARY WORLD MELODRAMA

   Upon arrival in the lone and dreary world, which is the world in
which we now live, Adam "builds an altar and offers up prayer."
Lucifer answers, instead of Elohim, affirming that he is "the God
of this world," and the drama develops its conflicts, around this
altar scene.  Lucifer's claim to be "the God of this world" is
never challenged or denied by Adam, Eve, or Elohim's agents.

   THE CHRISTIAN MINISTER IS SATAN'S HIRELING LACKEY

   Lucifer employs a Christian Minister as his hireling lackey to
confuse, deceive, and destroy all mankind along with Adam and
Eve.  He preaches to them a comical perversion of the 3rd century
Nicean Creed, which Adam rejects, employing sarcasm and ridicule
to develop audience contempt, but without hissing or booing, as
was done in prior decades.  The Apostles Peter, James and John
are sent by Elohim to rescue Adam and Eve, and the hireling
Minister deserts Lucifer and joins them after Peter discloses
Lucifer's true identity.  He embraces Mormonism with Adam and Eve
and is saved, along with the patrons in the audience, while
Lucifer is cast out.  Jehovah, whom Mormons have told outside of
the Temple is really Jesus, has been relegated to the role of
messenger boy between Elohim and his new agent team of Peter,
James and John.

   THE TERRESTRIAL WORLD PRESENTATION

   Adam, Eve, and the patrons advance to the Terrestrial World,
where they are put under covenant by Peter, James and John to
obey several more laws, and taught their accompanying Priesthood
tokens, names,signs and penalties, along with being clothed in
the Robes of the Holy Priesthood (see figures 8-10), and being
taught "The True Order of Prayer."

   THE ONE AND ONLY "TRUE ORDER OF PRAYER"

   The only "live entertainment" in the Endowment is the True Order
of Prayer After all of the secrets have been received (except
the one learned only at the veil), all the temple clothing has
been put on, then taken off and put on again differently, and the
ritual activities are completed, the patrons enjoy sitting and
watching something different.  (The patrons have stood up and sat
down approaching 20 times since the Endowment started).

   The Officiator calls the Witness Couple and seven or eight other
couples to come forward and form a circle around the altar.
Those in the circle then proceed to follow the Officiator in
performing all of the names, signs, and penalties of the tokens
of the Priesthoods which they have previously received.  Then
they form the "True Order of Prayer".  The sisters all veil their
faces (in the audience also).  Then each couple in the circle
joins right hands in the Patriarchal Grip and everyone raises
their left arms to the square and rests their left elbow on the
person next to them.  The Officiator carefully checks everyone's
position ...  then kneels at the altar and offers a prayer, which
all those in the circle repeat, one phrase at a time.  (this is
the first time the patrons hear the Officiator's voice.  He has
been pantomiming the tape recording during all of the prior
twenty minutes of the ceremony since the movie ended).

   The prayer is usually long and quite involved, covering many
subjects from the prophet's health to the patron's safe return
home.  It opens, as all Mormon prayers do, addressed to "Heavenly
Father", and closes "in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen." The
patrons in the circle repeat the "Amen" and are instructed to
return to their seats.

   THE "TRUE ORDER OF PRAYER" RESEMBLES ANCIENT RITUAL

   Prayer circles around Altars, doing very much the same sort of
ritualistic activities, are described in the Egyptian Coptic
Gnostic writings recently first published in English.  These were
a continuation of the ancient Egyptian pagan rituals performed
for centuries before the birth of Jesus.  This most certainly was
another Gospel, a very strange occultic one, from that which the
Apostles preached in the New Testament (see Galatians 1:8,9).
Dr.  Hugh Nibley and other mormon scholars speak of these pagan
ceremonies as if they validated the Endowment, when they actually
demonstrate the pagan nature and foundation of the Temple
rituals.

   THE VEIL OF THE TEMPLE

   The climactic conclusion to the Endowment if the Veil Ceremony in
which each patron is tested by a Veil Worker, who represents the
Lord behind the Veil, for his knowledge of the four tokens and
their names, which were given to him during the Endowment.  The
Veil is a seven foot high by three foot wide ivory colored fabric
panel hung on a beautifully finished hardwood framework (see
figure 4).  It has seven "Marks of the Holy Priesthood" in it
which correspond to the four marks in the patron's Priesthood
Temple undergarment.  Three of these Veil marks are sewn in the
form of openings which are large enough for hands or arms to pass
through.  Between each pair of Veil segments is a curtained
opening through which the patron is conducted after he
successfully completes the testing.  The Veil is located at the
front of the Terrestrial Room, representing the Terrestrial
(where almost all Christians and nearly all Mormons will
supposedly spend eternity), and separates it from the Celestial
Room, representing the Celestial Kingdom, where those who
successfully keep all of the Mormon commandments will go to
become Gods over their own planets.  Thus the patron gains
entrance to the Celestial Room by passing the testing conducted
by the Lord at the Veil.  Unfortunately for them, no Mormon is
successfully keeping all of the commandments required for
entrance into their Celestial Kingdom.

   There are approximately 60 Veil segments in the Los Angeles
Temple, equally divided between men and women.  The Veil is
perhaps the most important object in the Temples, and was used
over four million times last year alone.  The veil of the Hebrew
Temple was rent in twain from top to bottom at the time of Jesus'
crucifixion, thus destroying its function (Matthew 27:51).
Jesus' atonement ended the need and purpose of the Temple forever
(Hebrews 9:11-17).  The Veil of the Hebrew Temple had only one
opening and was only opened once each year by the one and only
High Priest to enter for a specific ritual performed on behalf of
all Israel and then to return through it (Hebrews 9:6-7).  Over
four million Mormon Temple patrons, mostly women but including
hundreds of thousands of High Priests, WORKED their way through
their Temple Veil to provide vicarious exaltation for dead
people.  They did nothing on the other side, an did not return
through it as the Hebrew High Priesthood, yet Mormons speak of
their Temple as a restoration of the one in Solomon's Hebrew
Temple.  They rarely mention any claims of specific similarities,
or the very many obvious differences.

   THE VEIL CEREMONY

   The Veil Ceremony is the Patron's principle opportunity to
participate in this two hour ritual.  A Veil Worker represents
the Lord behind the Veil, and an Introducer presents the patron
to the Lord and coaches him through his lines and actions if
necessary.  The Lord reaches through and opening in the Veil to
take his hand in the various grips or tokens and asks him
specific questions through the Veil.  His answers must be word
perfect.  The culmination of this examination is the name of the
Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip,
or Sure Sign of the Nail, which is given to the patron only
through the Veil, while embracing the Lord in the Five Points of
Fellowship.

   THE FIVE POINTS OF FELLOWSHIP

   "The Five Points of Fellowship are inside of right foot by the
side of right foot, knee to knee, breast to breast, hand to back,
and mouth to ear." The patron and the Veil Worker both reach
their left arm through the appropriate mark in the Veil, while
holding right hands in the Patriarchal Grip, and embracing each
other, maintaining strong contact at all the points indicated
with the Veil separating them, while the Veil Worker gives the
name of the token to the patron and the patron repeats it back
vebatim.  The name of the token is, "Health in the navel, marrow
in the bones, strength in the loins and sinews.  Power in the
Priesthood be upon me, and upon my posterity through all
generations of time, and throughout all eternity." This is a
form of incantation similar to various Witchcraft, Voodoo, or
Black Magic incantations in use for centuries before Joseph Smith
developed his Endowment.  Many women patrons are seriously
agitated and disturbed by this procedure through the Veil.  Since
the Veil Workers are all men, they tend to put the blame on the
men for being overly familiar or enthusiastic in this embrace.
Since the women tend to be more sensitive and perceptive, I
believe they are often spiritually disturbed by the overtly
occultic mystical demonic power that is being invoked in this
incantation.  This probably significantly contributes to why less
than ten percent of those Mormons who are eligible actually
attend the Temple regularly, while nearly triple that number have
been through this experience once.  After the patron repeats this
incantation vebatim, calling these spiritist powers down upon
himself and his posterity for eternity, he is ushered into the
beautiful, etherial Celestial Room, as the climax and reward for
his perserverance and performance.

   THE CELESTIAL ROOM

   The Celestial Room is a very large, elegantly decorated and
furnished sitting room.  It has no function or purpose except
that patrons may stand or sit for a few minutes to wait for
spouse, friends, or associates to come through the Veil.
Conversation is permitted only in quiet whispers.  This is the
only opportunity a Mormon ever has to ask a question about the
Temple ceremonies.  It is supposed to be a place to meditate, or
seek answers to problems or inspiration.  In actual practice,
however, patrons are not permitted to remain in the Celestial
room for more than a few minutes.  Rarely is anyone available to
answer any questions or discuss a problem.  It is very business
like an efficiently operated, like a production line.

   Patrons move from the Celestial room out a side door and back
downstairs to the locker room, still wearing all the Temple
clothing.  There the patron removes his Temple attire, puts on
his normal clothing, and is free to leave at his leisure.  There
is a comfortable waiting room near the entrance where he may
await spouse and friends.

   TEMPLE MARRIAGE FOR TIME AND ETERNITY

   A typical Temple contains from six to twenty Sealing Rooms where
marriages and Sealings are performed for the living and the dead.
Sealings are performed for couples already married, living or
dead, to extend their marriage to eternity.  On a typical spring
Saturday in Los Angeles from 60 to 100 marriages and Sealings may
be performed, mostly for young couples.  The Sealing Rooms are
elegantly furnished and decorated (See figure 5).  The walls are
lined with formal dining room type chairs and a beautiful altar
is in the center.  Two opposing walls are covered with solid
mirrors so that one can seem to see "for Eternity" in both
directions.  The Officiator for this ceremony is a Temple Sealer,
who is called to this position because he is considered an
especially "Spiritual" person.

   The room is often filled with many friends and family of the
wedding couple, who must also have valid Temple Recommends, who
have come to be with them, all dressed in white Temple clothing.
It is an impressive ceremony.  There were approximately 40 dearly
beloved friends at the Sealing of my wife and three teenage
children to myself one year and six days after our Baptism.  (It
is the order of the Priesthood that wife (or wives) and children
are sealed to the Priesthood holder).  Though we were dazed and
perplexed by the rush of confusing activities that had taken
place during a period of sever hours preceeding it, at the
completion of that brief climaxing ceremony we truly felt
blessed.  With this capacity crowd of joyful well wishers
encouraging us, we truly felt a wonderful bond of family
togetherness envelop us.  It is an event I will never forget.  We
thought we had achieved a wonderful goal through sustained
sacrifice, dedication and hard work.  The promises bestowed were
glorious beyond understanding, and it felt worthwhile and
rewarding.  The support and fellowship of all those beloved
friends who were there just for us was a very significant factor
in the good feelings we had, for without them it would all have
been a mass of confusion and senseless rituals.

   5 LAWS- All Temple patrons covenant and promise to keep and live
by these five laws of the Endowment.

   1 - Law of Obedience- Wives agree to obey their husbands in
righteousness, and husbands, in turn agree to obey the law of
Elohim and keep his commandments.

   2 - Law of Sacrifice- All agree to give everything they have,
including their lives, if necessary, to the building up of the
Kingdom of God.

   3 - Law of the Gospel- All agree to obey the Law of the Gospel,
and to avoid lightmindedness, loud laughter, evil speaking of the
Lord's annointed, the taking of the name of God in vain, and
every other unholy and impure practice.

   4 - Law of Chastity- All agree that they shall have no sexual
intercourse except with their legal and lawful husband or wife
(or wives).

   5 - Law of Consecration- All agree to consecrate their time,
talents, and everything with which the Lord has blessed them or
will bless them to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, for the building up of the Kingdom of God and the
establishment of Zion (the Mormon Church).

   4 TOKENS (HANDCLASPS) - WITH ACCOMPANYING NAMES - Temple
participants each receive these four secret tokens or handclasps
with accompanying secret names, signs, and penalties.

   1 - The First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood: Is given by
clasping the right hands together and by placing the joint of the
thumb over the first knuckle of the hand.  Its name is the NEW
NAME you received in the temple this day (The 'New Name' is
usually Biblical, and is the same for everyone on a given day,
i.e., every male who goes to the temple on the third of the month
will receive the name "Abraham".  The name of the First Token of
the A.P., then, would be "Abraham").

   2 - The Second Token of the Aaronic Priesthood: Is given by
clasping right hands together and by placing the joint of the
thumb between the first and second knuckles of the hand.  The
name of this token is your given name (If you are Elmer Jones the
name of the token would be "Elmer", and if you were Sadie Jones
it would be "Sadie").

   3 - The First Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood or Sign of the
Nail: Is executed by bringing your right hand forward in a
vertical position, fingers close together, thumb extended, and
the person giving the token placing the tip of the forefinger in
the center of the palm with the thumb on the back of the hand.
The name of this token in "The Son".

   4 - The Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the
Patriarchal Grip, or Sure Sign of the Nail: Is given by clasping
right hands and interlocking little fingers, and placing the
index finger of the right hand on the center of the wrist.  The
name is "Health in the navel, marrow in the bone, strength in the
loins and in the sinews, power in the priesthood be upon me and
upon my posterity through all generation of time and throughout
all eternity".

   4 SIGNS AND 3 PENALTIES

   1 - The Sign and Penalty of the First Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood Is made by bringing the right arm to the square, the
palm of the hand forward, the fingers close together, and the
thumb extended.  The penalty is executed by placing the right
thumb under the left ear, palm down, fingers close together.  The
thumb is drawn quickly across the throat to the right ear and the
hand dropped to the side.  This signifies having your throat slit
from ear to ear and your tongue torn out by its roots.*

   2 - The Sign and Penalty of the Second Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood Is made by bringing the right hand in front of you,
the hand in cupping shape, the right arm forming a square, and
the left arm is raised to the square.  The penalty is executed by
placing the right hand on the left breast, and drawing the hand
quickly across the chest, then dropping both hands to the sides.
This signifies having your chest ripped open and your heart and
vitals torn out and fed to the beasts of the field and the fowls
of the air.*

   3 - The Sign and Penalty of the First Token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood is made by bringing the left hand forward, the hand
in cupping shape, the left arm forming a square.  The right hand
is brought forward, the palm down, fingers close together, and
the thumb extended.  The thumb is placed over the left hip.  The
penalty is executed by drawing the thumb quickly across the body
and dropping both hands to the sides.  This signifies having your
body cut asunder and your bowels gush out upon the ground.*

   4 - The Sign of the Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood
(no penalty is mentioned) Is made by raising both hands high
above the head, palms forward, fingers close together, and
lowering the hands to the side three times while repeating aloud
the words, 'PAY LAY ALE, PAY LAY ALE, PAY LAY ALE.' They are
told this means, "Oh God, hear the words of my mouth" in the
Adamic language.

   *Up until the 1930's the penalties were plainly stated as
indicated.  The patron was agreeing or covenanting that if he or
she revealed these secrets, the Mormon elders would very
literally take them and execute the penalties upon them.  This is
known as "blood atonement", and is still a doctrine of the Church
today.

   *The significance of the penalties is no longer explained to the
patrons as plainly as it was in former days.  Today it is
described as "various ways in which life may be taken." As the
patron is executing the morbid gesture of the penalty, he is
affirming that rather than reveal the secret token, name, sign
and penalty, he would "suffer his life to be taken."

   IMMORALITY AND SEXUAL ACTIVITY IN THE TEMPLE RITUAL

   Numerous stories have been circulated of all manner of sexual
activities, indecent exposure, polygamous marriages, marital
intercourse, etc., taking place as part of the Temple rituals.
We want to unequivically and emphatically state that none of
these are true.  There is no overt sexual activity, immoral or
otherwise, contained within the rituals or otherwise conducted
within the Mormon Temples, although there are numerous
similarities between ancient pagan fertility rites and Mormon
Temple rituals.  We do not believe that polygamous marriages are
knowingly being performed within the Temples today.  Since
polygamy is still an essential element of Mormon doctrine, and
still very much alive in Utah, we realize that some Mormon
dishonestly obtain polygamous marriage through Mormon Temples by
concealing the truth of their intentions.

   THE GARMENT OF THE HOLY PRIESTHOOD

   4 MARKS -

   Every Mormon who "receives his Endowments" (including all Mormon
Missionaries) is dressed by a temple worker in the "garment of
the holy priesthood" which he is required to wear 24 hours a day,
365 days a year, until he is buried in it.  It is removed only to
bathe and change them, and for certain "public appearance"
exceptions.  Most of these have the appearance of old-fashioned
"long johns".

   Closer examination reveals a pair of botton-holes over the right
breast sewn in the form of a square, reminding the Mormon of
exactness and honor in living up to his temple vows.  Over the
left breast a pair of botton-holes in the form of a compass,
remind the Mormon that all truth may be circumscribed into one
great whole, and that all appetites must be kept within certain
bounds.  One button-type hole over the navel, recalls the need
of nourishment for body and soul, and an identical hole over the
right knee, signifies that every knee shall bow, and every tongue
confess that Jesus is the Christ.  In the early Mormon Temple
ceremonies some of the marks were cut into the garment with a
small knife while on the patron's body, thus knicking his flesh
and shedding his blood into the garment.  See Leviticus 19:28,
21:5, Deuteronomy14:1, and Jeremiah 16:6.  The same four marks
are on the veil of the temple in much larger dimensions.  The
Temple Worker tells the patron, as he or she is being dressed in
this garment, that "it will be a shield and a protection to you
from the power of the destroyer until you have finished your work
on the earth, so long as you are true and faithful to the
covenants you make in the temple this day."

   The garment has thus become a magic talisman to the Temple
patron, and is to be his source of protection from the power of
Satan throughout his lifetime.  The patron is instructed that,
when the garment is worn out, he must cut the priesthood markings
off of it and burn them.  The garment then can be used for rags
or any other purpose.  Thus we see that the magical "power" in in
the Priesthood markings.  The Christian is taught that his
protection from Satan comes in a much different form from this
Priestcraft occultic talisman magic.  Christians, in overcoming
Satan's attacks, are to put on something more substantial than
magic underwear with Masonic markings.  It is fully explained in
Ephesians 6:12-18, and we highly recommend this form of
protection to all readers.

   MASONIC SYMBOLS AND RITES USED IN THE MORMON TEMPLE

   In spite of vehement denials to the contrary, there is a direct
link between the rites, symbols, signs, handclasps and penalties
of the Masonic Lodge (Free and Accepted Masons or Free Masons)
and those of the temple Endowments of Mormonism.  Joseph Smith
received his first degree in Masonry on March 15, 1842 and the
very next day was elevated to 32nd degree sublime Master of the
Royal Secret.  (See History of the Church (H.C.), Volume 4, page
550, 552).  Six weeks later, on May 2, 1842, Smith was teaching
these Masonic secrets as his own "revelations" to Mormon leaders
as the Temple Endowment (see H.C., Volume 15, Page 2).  It was
from his association with the Masons that Joseph Smith derived
the basic ceremonies and symbols now known as the "Endowment".
Into the fabric of Free Masonry he wove his own peculiar brand of
occultism, claiming it to be "Revelation" from on high.

   We do not intend to do an exhaustive comparison between Masonry
and the Mormon Temple Endowment, but we would like to draw your
attention to a few of the more obvious similarities.  Please keep
in mind as you look over the following list, that the Masonic
rituals and symbols pre-date the Mormon Church by several hundred
years:

   All Seeing Eye
   Anointing with oil
   Apron
   Beehive
   Square and Compass
   Earth Symbol
   Emblem of the clasped hands
   Solemn Assembly in the Temple
   Five points of Fellowship
   Special Garments applied to initiates
   Garment Markings
   Grips (Special handshakes)
   The phrase: "Holiness to the Lord"
   Moon symbol
   New Name given
   Special Prayer circle
   Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods
   Blood/death oaths of secrecy with morbid gestures and words
   describing penalties agreed to if secrets are revealed.
   Location (possession of) Throne of the "Holy of Holies"
   Star symbols
   Sun symbols
   Tabernacles
   Temples

   THE TEMPLE CEREMONIES

   Throughout the following account of the Temple ceremonies certain
explanatory notes have been added to help you understand the
flow of events.  These sections are clearly distinguished by the
bold face type used.  The temple ceremonies are set forth with no
editorial commentary on our part, for we feel that the words
spoken and doctrines revealed truly "Speak for themselves," and
demonstrate that Mormonism is not in any way Christian.

   The rituals, called "ordinances" or "temple work", which are
performed inside the temple are of two classes, work for the
living and work for the dead.

   Please refer to the introduction for an explanation of these.
Over 95% of the temple rituals are performed for the dead by a
patron acting as proxy for the dead person.

   PRE-INITIATORY" RITUAL

   The first ceremony for the dead in the Temple is that of Baptism.
This is performed in the beautiful baptismal font mounted on the
backs of 12 full sized oxen, located in the Temple basement.  The
officiator and the patron are dressed in heavy white jump-suits.
There are two or more witnesses observing the procedure.  Usually
a closed circuit T.V.  is used to project the names of the
deceased persons on a large T.V.  screen.  Typically 200-300
baptisms are performed per hour.  The baptismal pronouncement is
recited in full for each baptism, and the patron is completely
immersed.

   BAPTISM FOR THE DEAD

   Brother (or Sister) ________, having authority, I baptize you,
for and in behalf of________, who is dead, in the name of the
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, amen.

   Next comes the Confirmation for the Dead.  This is usually
performed at or near the baptismal font, by the same persons who
performed the baptism ritual.

   CONFIRMATION FOR THE DEAD

   Brother (or Sister) ________, in the name of Jesus Christ, we lay
our hands upon your head for and in behalf of ________, who is
dead, and confirm you a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and say unto you: Receive the Holy Ghost.
Amen.

   After the Baptism and Confirmation for the Dead are done, the
person who is doing work for the dead is ready to be washed with
water, anointed with oil and clothed in the garment of the Holy
Priesthood.  This is the beginning of the Endowment Ceremony.

   The ordination of the dead males to the Mormon "Holy Melchizedek
Priesthood" is usually (but not always) performed in the same area
of the Temple by the same proxy.  Other temple workers perform
this ordinance following the baptism and confirmation.  Two
workers lay their hands upon the patron's head and one of them
pronounces the ordination.

   ORDINATION FOR THE DEAD

   Brother ________, having authority we lay our hands upon your
head and confer upon you the Melchizedek Priesthood and ordain
you an Elder in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
for and in behalf of ________, who is dead, and seal upon you
every grace, gift and authority appertaining to his office in the
Holy Melchizedek Priesthood, for and in his behalf, in the name
of Jesus Christ.  Amen.

   INITIATORY ORDINANCE

   Following the pre-initiatory ordinances of baptism and
confirmation and ordination, other proxies will perform the next
group of rituals for these deceased parsons.  These are called
the "initiatory ordinances" or rituals and are performed on the
main floor level of the Temple, adjacent to the men's and women's
locker rooms.  These include washing with water, anointing with
oil, and clothing in the Garment of the Holy Priesthood.

   PREPARATION FOR PARTICIPATION

   As patrons enter the Temple, they present their "Temple
Recommend" to a doorkeeper immediately inside.  They then proceed
to a room with two typists at counters, one for men and the other
for women.  Each patron presents his recommend to the typist, she
types his name, then tears off a strip of the page approximately
1/2 inch wide by 2 1/2 inches long.  This contains the name and
birthdate of the deceased person, and the proxy's name.  The
patrons proceed to a room where Temple clothing may be rented.
Many patrons do not own their own Temple clothing but prefer to
rent it as a nominal charge.  Each Temple has a large and busy
laundry and sewing facility to provide this service.  The patrons
separate at this point to the men's and women's locker rooms,
where each patron is assigned a locker.

   The typical locker rooms are identical for men and women with one
exception, the bride's rooms.  The locker rooms are composed of
rows of dressing booths with chest high partitions.  The booth
contains three tall lockers with locks and keys.  There is a
space on top of the lockers for suitcases in which most patrons
carry their own white temple clothing.  Most patrons will remove
their street clothing and place it in the locker, leave their
temple garment on, and put on the white temple clothing - white
dress, slip, stockings and slippers, or white pants shirt, tie,
belt, socks and slippers which they either bought or rented.

   They will then lock their locker and proceed to receive the "New
Name" in a special booth, and then go to the theatre like
endowment room to receive the Endowment.  These patrons who are
receiving the Washing, Anointing, and Clothing in the Garment of
the Holy Priesthood, either for themselves or for a dead person
for whom they are proxy, will proceed as follows

   WASHING AND ANOINTING ROOM FOR MEN

   The patron prepares for these rituals, called the initiatory
ordinances, by removing all clothing and placing it in the
locker.  The patron puts on a devise called a shield.  This strip
of white sheeting approximately three feet wide by 8 feet long
with a head sized whole in the center.  It hangs open at the
sides and covers the body front and back.  The patron then
proceeds to the washing and anointing room, taking with him his
temple garment, name slip and locker key.  Usually he joins
group of similarly attired patrons on a bench waiting their turn
to enter.  As each patron enters, the temple worker takes the
garment from the patron and the patron enters the first section
of the room to be washed with water.

   The temple worker wets his right hand in running water and
proceeds to ceremonially wash the patron's body.  As he recites
the words of the ceremony, the temple worker lightly touches each
part of the patron's body mentioned with his fingers or hand.

   WASHING - OF MEN

   Brother ________, having authority, I wash you preparatory to
your receiving your anointings (for and in behalf of ________,
who is dead), that you may become clean from the blood and sins
of this generation.  I wash your head, that your brain and your
intellect may be clear and active; your ears, that you may hear
the word of the Lord; your eyes, that you may see clearly and
discern between truth and error; your nose, that you may smell;
your lips, that you may never speak guile; your neck, that it may
bear up your head properly; your shoulders, that they may bear
the burdens that shall be placed thereon; your back, that there
may be marrow in the bones and in the spine; your breast, that it
may be the receptacle of pure and virtuous principles; your
vitals and bowels, that they may be healthy and strong and
perform their proper functions; your arms and hands, that they
may be strong and wield the sword of justice in defense of truth
and virtue; your loins, that you may be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth, that you may have joy and rejoicing in your
posterity; your legs and feet, that you may run and not be weary,
and walk and not faint.

   The washing is then sealed by two temple workers placing their
hands upon the patron's head.  One of them pronounces the

   CONFIRMATION OF WASHING - OF MEN

   Brother ________, having authority, we lay our hands upon your
head (for and in behalf of ________, who is dead), and seal upon
you this washing, that you may become clean from the blood and
sins of this generation through your faithfulness, in the name of
Jesus Christ.  Amen.

   Next, the patron enters the second part of the room where he is
seated upon a sort of a tile covered throne chair.  Another
temple worker pours some drops of oil from a large horn into his
hand and proceeds to anoint the patron's body, by dipping his
fingers in the oil and touching each part in turn.

   ANOINTING - OF MEN

   Brother ________, having authority, I pour this holy anointing
oil upon your head (for and in behalf of ________, who is dead),
and anoint you preparatory to your becoming a King and a Priest
unto the Most High God, hereafter to rule and reign in the House
of Israel forever.  I anoint your head, that your brain and your
intellect may be clear and active; your ears, that you may hear
the word of the Lord; your eyes, that you may see clearly and
discern between truth and error; your nose, that you may smell;
your lips, that you may never speak guile; your neck, that it may
bear up your head properly; your shoulders, that they may bear
the burdens that shall be placed thereon; your back, that there
may be marrow in the bones and in the spine; your breast, that it
may be the receptacle of pure and virtuous principles; your
vitals and bowels, that they may be healthy and strong and
perform their proper functions; your arms and hands, that they
may be strong and wield the sword of justice in defense of truth
and virtue; your loins, that you may be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth, that you may have joy and rejoicing in your
posterity; your legs and feet, that you may run and not be weary,
and walk and not faint.

   The anointing is then sealed by two of the temple workers laying
their hands upon the patron's head and one of them pronouncing
the sealing.

   CONFIRMATION OF ANOINTING - OF MEN

   Brother ________, having authority we lay hands upon your head
(for and in behalf of ________, who is dead), and confirm upon
you this anointing, wherewith you have been anointed in the
Temple of our God preparatory to becoming a king and a priest
unto the Most High God hereafter to rule and reign in the House
of Israel forever; and seal upon you all the blessings hereunto
appertaining, through your faithfulness, in the name of Jesus
Christ.  Amen.

   The patron now enters the third section of the room to be clothed
in the garment that he brought with him to the washing and
anointing room.  A temple worker holds the garment open for the
patron, who is still wearing the shield, to step into.  He then
helps the patron pull the garment up and put his arms in as the
worker is giving instructions and "New Name".

 RECEIVING THE "GARMENT OF THE HOLY PRIESTHOOD"
   AND THE "NEW NAME"

   Brother ________, having authority, I place this garment upon you
(for and in behalf of ________, who is dead), which you must wear
throughout your life.  It represents the garment given to Adam
when he was found naked in the Garden of Eden, and is called the
Garment of the Holy Priesthood.  Inasmuch as you do not defile
it, but are true and faithful to your covenants, it will be a
shield and a protection to you against the power of the destroyer
until you have finished your work here on earth.  With this
garment I give you a new name, which you should always remember,
and which you must keep sacred, and never reveal except at a
certain place that will be shown you hereafter.  The name is
"________".

   Each of the men and each of the women participating in the
Endowment (on a particular day) receive the same "New Name"..
The "New Name" is usually Biblical, such as Abraham, Joseph,
Moses, etc.  or Martha, Mary, or Naomi.  An alternate New Name is
provided to those patrons who are representing a dead person
whose first name sounds like the New Name in use.

   The patron then goes back to his locker, removes his shield, and
puts on his white clothing, which he either rented or brought
with him.  This includes white shirt, trousers, belt, socks, tie
and mocassins.  This is put over the garment.  He then carries in
his hand the Temple Clothing which he will put on later in the
ceremony.

   The women patrons have been going through similar rituals in
their identical area of the Temple.  Over the Temple garment they
now dress in white slip, long dress, hose and mocassins.

   Today it is common practice for the Washing, Anointing and
Clothing in the Garment of the Holy Priesthood to be performed
separately from the Endowment by other proxies.  Those who come
to the Temple to perform only the Endowment dress in their white
Temple clothing and pass through a special booth where they
receive the "New Name" on their way to the Endowment rooms.  The
name slip containing the name of the dead person is green or gold
for these persons.

   The patrons will usually pass through a beautiful foyer and climb
an impressive flight of stairs to reach the Endowment room where
they will be segregated by a temple worker, women to the left and
men to the right (entering always from the rear) and be seated on
richly upholstered theatre type seats.  In the older Temples,
patrons often still move from room to room through the various
stages of presentation of the Endowment.  In modern Temples,
patrons remain in one room throughout the first one and one half
hours of the Endowment, which is presented in motion picture form
except for the secret tokens, names, signs, penalties, prayer
circle and veil explanation portion, which are on tape recording.
The Officiator, who is "in charge" of the presentation pantomimes
much of the taped portion, and rarely speaks.

   CREATION ROOM

   LECTURER #1 (tape recording Brethren and Sisters, we welcome
you to the Temple and hope you will find joy in serving in the
house of the Lord this day.  Those of you who are here for your
own Endowments and those who have yellow or white family name
slips should have been washed, anointed, and clothed in the
garment of the Holy Priesthood.  The brethren with the yellow
name slips should also have been ordained.  The ordinances of
washing, anointing, and clothing in the garment of the Holy
Priesthood, together with the ordaining on behalf of deceased
brethren, were performed previously by other proxies for those
whose names are on the green or gold nameslips.

   Each of you should have received a "New Name" in connection with
this company.  If any of you have forgotten the "New Name", or
have not received these ordinances as explained, please stand.
Please be alert, attentive and refrain from whispering during the
presentation of the Endowment.  As you are asked to proceed to
the veil, please do so in an orderly manner, row by row as
directed.  After passing through the veil into the Celestial
Room, and in other areas in the Temple, if you need to
communicate, please whisper, thus helping us maintain the quiet
reverence that should prevail in the House of the Lord.  We will
now proceed with the presentation of the Endowment.

   LECTURER #2 Brethren, you have been washed and pronounced
clean, or that through your faithfulness, you may become clean
from the blood and sins of this generation.  You have been
anointed to become hereafter Kings and Priests unto the Most High
God, to rule and reign in the House of Israel forever.

   Sisters, you have been washed and anointed to become Queens and
Priestesses to your husbands.

   Brethren and Sisters, if you are true and faithful, the day will
come when you will be chosen, called up and anointed Kings and
Queens, Priests and Priestesses, whereas you are now anointed
only to become such.  The realization of these blessings depends
upon your faithfulness.

   You have had a garment placed upon you, which you were informed,
represents the garment given to Adam when he was found naked in
the garden of Eden, and which is called the Garment of the Holy
Priesthood.  This you were instructed to wear throughout your
life.  You were informed that it will be a shield and a
protection to you if you are true and faithful to your covenants.

   You have had a New Name given unto you, which you were told never
to divulge nor forget.  This New Name is a keyword which you will
be required to give at a certain place in the temple today.

   The Endowment is to prepare you for exaltation in the Celestial
Kingdom.

   If you proceed and receive your full Endowment, you will be
required to take upon yourselves sacred obligations, the
violation of which will bring upon you the judgment of God; for
God will not be mocked.  If any of you desire to withdraw rather
than accept these obligations of your own free will and choice,
you may now make it known by raising your hand.  PAUSE)

   Brethren and Sisters, as you sit here, you will hear the voices
of three persons who represent Elohim, Jehovah and Michael.
Elohim will command Jehovah and Michael to go down and organize a
world.  The work of the six creative periods will be represented.
They will organize man in their own likeness and image, male and
female.  This however is simply figurative so far as the man and
woman are concerned.  PAUSE)

   Here begins a motion picture presentation which constitutes the
major portion of the Endowment.  Originally it was done on stage
with live actors, but most all Temples are now using the filmed
versions of the Endowment ceremony.  During the creation sequence
a series of scenes and animation or still art work are shown
portraying the creation activities.  Only the voices of the
characters are heard.

   THE CREATION - FIRST DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, See yonder is matter unorganized.  Go
ye down and organize it into a world like unto the worlds that we
have heretofore formed.  Call your labors the First Day and bring
me word.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  Come Michael, let us go
down.

   MICHAEL We will go down, Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Michael, see, here is the matter unorganized.  We will
organize it into a world like unto the worlds that we have
heretofore formed.  We will call our labors the First Day and
return and report.

   MICHAEL We will return and report our labors of the First Day,
Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Elohim, we have been down as thou hast commanded and
have organized a world like unto the worlds that we have
heretofore formed and we have called our labors the First Day.

   ELOHIM It is well.

   SECOND DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, go down again.  Gather the waters
together and cause the dry land to appear.  The great waters call
ye seas and the dry land call ye earth.  Form mountains and
hills, great rivers and small streams to beautify and give
variety to the face of the earth.  When you have done this, call
your labors the Second Day and bring me word.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  Come Michael, let us go
down.

   MICHAEL We will go down, Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Michael, we will gather the waters together and cause
the dry land to appear.  The great waters we will call seas, and
the dry land we will call Earth.  We will form mountains and
hills, great rivers and small streams to beautify and give
variety to the face of the earth.  We will call our labors the
Second Day and return and report.

   MICHAEL We will return and report our labors of the Second Day,
Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Elohim, we have been down as thou hast commanded, and
have gathered the waters together and have caused the dry land to
appear.  The great waters we have called seas and the dry land we
have called earth.  We have formed mountains and hills, great
rivers and small streams to beautify and give variety to the
face of the earth.  And we have called our labors the Second Day.

   ELOHIM It is well.

   THIRD DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, return again to the earth you have
formed.  Divide the light from the darkness.  Call the light day
and the darkness night.  Cause the lights in the firmament to
appear, the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light
to rule the night.  Cause the stars also to appear, to give light
to the earth, the same as with the worlds we have heretofore
formed.  When you have done this, call your labors the Third Day,
and return and report.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done Elohim.  Come Michael, let us go down.

   MICHAEL We will go down, Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Michael, we will divide the light from the darkness.
We will call the light day, and the darkness night.  We will
cause the lights in the firmaments to appear, the greater light
to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night.  We will
cause the stars also to appear, to give light to the earth, the
same as with the worlds we have heretofore formed.  We will call
our labors the Third Day, and return and report.

   MICHAEL We will return and report our labors of the Third Day,
Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH We have been down as thou hast commanded, and divided
the light from the darkness.  The light we have called day, and
the darkness we have called night.  We have caused the firmament
to appear.  We have set the greater light to rule the day, and
the lesser light to rule the night.  We have caused the stars to
appear to give light to the earth, and have called our labors the
Third Day.

   ELOHIM It is well.

   FOURTH DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, return again to the earth you have
formed.  Plant seeds of all kinds in the earth ...

   NOTE: Elohim continues the instructions for filling the earth
with vegetation, various forms of flora are specified.  Jehovah
and Michael accept the instructions and the process is repeated
as in the first three days, with the instructions being put into
action upon the earth.  Jehovah and Michael return and repeat the
same instructions in the form of a report, which Elohim accepts
with, "It is well".

   FIFTH DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, go down again to the earth you have
formed, and place beasts and all forms of animal life thereon:
the Elephant, the Lion, the Tiger, the Bear, the Horse, Cattle in
the fields and other kinds of animals; fouls in the air in all
their varieties; fishes of all kinds in the waters, and insects
and all manner of animal life upon the earth.  Command the
beasts, the fouls, the fishes, the insects, all creeping things
and other forms of animal life to multiply in their respective
elements, each after its kind, and every kind of vegetation to
multiply in its sphere, that every form of life may fulfill the
measure of its creation and have joy therein.  Call your labors
the Fifth Day, and return and bring me word.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  Come Michael, let us go
down.

   MICHAEL We will go down, Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Michael, now that the earth is formed, divided and
beautified, and vegetation is growing there on, we will place
beasts upon the land: the Elephant, the Lion, the Tiger, the
Bear, the Horse, and all other kinds of animals; fouls in the air
in all their varieties, fishes of all kinds in the waters, and
insects, and all manner of animal life upon the earth.  We will
command the beasts, the fouls, the fishes, the insects, all
creeping things and other forms of animal life to multiply in
their respective elements, each after its kind, and every kind of
vegetation to multiply in its sphere, that every form of life may
fill the measure of its creation, and have joy therein.  We will
call our labors the Fifth Day, and return and report.

   MICHAEL We will return and report our labors of the Fifth Day,
Jehovah.

   Jehovah and Michael then return and repeat the dialogue again to
Elohim in the form of a report.

   ELOHIM It is well.

   SIXTH DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, is man found upon the earth?

   JEHOVAH No, man is not found upon the earth, Elohim.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, then let us go down and form man in
our own likeness and in our own image, male and female, and put
into him his spirit, and let us give him dominion over the
beasts, the fishes, and the birds, and make him Lord over the
earth and over all things on the face of the earth.  We will
plant for him a garden, eastward in Eden, and place him in it to
tend and cultivate it, that he may be happy and have joy therein.
We will command him to multiply and replenish the earth, that he
may have joy in his posterity.  We will place before him the Tree
of Knowledge of Good and Evil, and we will allow Lucifer, our
common enemy, whom we have thrust out, to tempt him and to try
him, that he may know by his own experience the good from the
evil.  If he yields to temptation, we will give unto him the Law
of Sacrifice, and we will provide a Savior for him, as we
counselled in the beginning, that man may be brought forth by the
power of the redemption and the resurrection, and come again into
our presence, and with us partake of eternal life and exaltation.
We will call this the sixth day and we will rest from our labors
for a season.  Come, let us go down.

   JEHOVAH We will go down, Elohim.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, see the earth that we have formed.  There is no
man to till and take care of it.  We are here to form man in our
own likeness and in our own image.

   JEHOVAH We will do so, Elohim.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, man is now organized and we will put into him
his spirit, the breath of life, that he may become a living soul.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, is it good for man to be alone?

   JEHOVAH It is not good for man to be alone, Elohim.

   ELOHIM We will cause a deep sleep to come upon this man whom we
have formed and we will take from his side a rib from which we
will form a woman to be a companion and a helpmeet for him.

   NARRATOR Brethren and Sisters, this is Michael, who helped form
the earth.  When he awakens from the sleep which Elohim and
Jehovah have caused to come upon him, he will be known as Adam
and having forgotten all, will become like a little child.
Brethren, close your eyes as if you were asleep.

   ELOHIM Adam, awake and arise.

   NARRATOR All the brethren will please arise.

   (Men all stand up

   ELOHIM Adam, here is a woman whom we have formed and whom we
give unto you to be a companion and an helpmeet for you.  What
will you call her?

   ADAM Eve.

   Elohim and Jehovah are shown suspended in air against the garden
backdrop, as identical, brilliant, white, radiant personages with
long white beards, white hair, and long white robes.  Adam and Eve
are shown shoulders and up behind garden foliage.)

   ELOHIM Why will you call her Eve?

   ADAM Because she is the Mother of all living.

   ELOHIM That is right, Adam.  Because she is the Mother of all
living.

   Adam, we have organized for you this earth, and have planted a
garden eastward in Eden.  We will place you in the garden and
will there command you and Eve to multiply and replenish the
earth, that you may have joy and rejoicing in your posterity.
Jehovah, introduce Adam into the Garden which we have prepared
for him.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.

   Narrator We now go with Adam and Eve into the garden.  The
Brethren will please be seated.

   THE GARDEN OF EDEN

   ELOHIM Adam, we have created for you this earth, and have
placed upon it all kinds of vegetation and animal life.  We have
commanded all these to multiply in their own sphere and element.
We give you dominion over all these things, and make you Lord
over the whole earth, and all things on the face thereof.  We
now command you and Eve to multiply and replenish the earth, that
you may have joy and rejoicing in your posterity.  We have also
planted for you this garden, wherein we have placed all manner of
fruits, flowers and vegetation.  Of every tree of the garden thou
mayest freely eat, but of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil
thou shalt not eat, nevertheless thou mayest choose for thyself,
for it is given unto thee.  But remember that I forbid it, for in
the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

   Adam, remember this commandment which we have given unto you.
Now go to, dress this garden, take good care of it, be happy and
have joy therein.  We shall go away, but we shall visit you again
and give you further instructions.

   LUCIFER: (Wearing crimson velvet flowing robe with tunic and
apron underneath)Well, Adam, you have a new world here.

   ADAM A new world?

   LUCIFER Yes, a new world, patterned after the old one where we
used to live.

   ADAM I know nothing about any other world.

   LUCIFER Oh, I see, your eyes are not yet opened.  You have
forgotten everything.  You must eat some of the fruit of this
tree (walks to Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil and picks 2
ripe fruit, usually having a appearance of an apple, then walks
over to Adam and holds fruit out to him.  Adam, here is some of
the fruit of that tree.  It will make you wise.

   ADAM I will not partake of that fruit.  Father told me that in
the day that I should partake of it I should surely die.

   LUCIFER You shall not surely die, but shall be as the Gods,
knowing good and evil.

   ADAM I will not partake of it.

   LUCIFER Oh, you will not ?(looks at Eve and expresses a wise
grin Well, we shall see.  (walks over to where Eve is admiring
the flowers Eve, here is some of the fruit of that tree (hold
fruit out to Eve.  It will make you wise.  It is delicious to
the taste and very desirable.

   EVE (surprised Who are you?

   LUCIFER (tenderly I am your brother.

   EVE (Inquisitively You, my brother, and have come here to
persuade me to disobey Father?

   LUCIFER (expounding LDS doctrine I have said nothing about
Father.  I want you to eat of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge
of Good and Evil, that your eyes may be opened, for that is the
way Father gained his knowledge.  You must eat of this fruit so
as to comprehend that everything has its opposite: good and evil;
virtue and vice; light and darkness; health and sickness;
pleasure and pain; and thus your eyes will be opened and you will
have -- knowledge.

   EVE (plaintively Is there no other way?

   LUCIFER (confidently There is no other way.

   EVE (resignedly Then I will partake.

   LUCIFER: (Expresses a smug, wise grin) There, now go and get
Adam to partake (places another fruit in Eve's hand, closes it,
and pats her hand.

   EVE: (Walks over to where Adam is - Sweetly and persuasively)
Adam, here is some of the fruit of that tree.  It is delicious to
the taste and very desirable.

   ADAM (surprised Eve, do you know what fruit that is?

   EVE Yes, it is the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and
Evil.

   ADAM I can not partake of it.  Do you not know that Father
commanded us not to partake of the fruit of that tree?

   EVE (searchingly Do you intend to obey all of Father's
commandments?

   ADAM (resolutely Yes, all of them.

   EVE (pathetically Do you not recollect that Father commanded us
to multiply and replenish the earth? I have partaken of this
fruit and by so doing shall be cast out, and you will be left a
lone man in the Garden of Eden.

   ADAM (resignedly Eve, I see that this must be so.  I will
partake that man may be.

   LUCIFER (walks into the scene That is right.

   EVE (philosophically It is better for us to pass through sorrow
that we may know the good from the evil.  (Eve turns to Lucifer -
contemptuously.  I know thee now.  Thou art Lucifer, he who was
cast out of Father's presence for rebellion.

   LUCIFER: (wisely) Yes, you are beginning to see already.

   ADAM (inquisitively What is that apron you have on?

   LUCIFER (arrogantly) It is an emblem of my power and
Priesthoods.

   ADAM Priesthoods?

   LUCIFER Yes, Priesthoods.

   ADAM I am looking for Father to come down to give us further
instructions.

   LUCIFER Oh, you are looking for Father to come down, are you?

   ELOHIM (voices from a distance Jehovah, we promised Adam that
we would visit him and give him further instructions.  Come, let
us go down.

   JEHOVAH We will go down, Elohim.

   ADAM (excitedly I hear their voices, they are coming.

   LUCIFER (excitedly and slyly See, you are naked.  Take some
fig leaves and make you aprons.  Father will see your nakedness.
Quick! Hide!*

   ADAM (alarmed Come, let us hide.

   NARRATOR Brethren and Sisters, put on your aprons (the movie
stops while the patrons in the audience remove th green fig-leaf
apron from their package of Temple clothing and tie it around
their waist.

   ELOHIM Adam (pause, Adam! (pause, Adam! Where art thou?

   ADAM (cowering I heard thy voice and hid myself, because I was
naked.

   ELOHIM (searchingly Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast
thou partaken of the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good
and Evil, of which we commanded thee not to partake?

   ADAM (ashamedly The woman thou gavest me, and commanded that
she should remain with me, she gave me of the fruit of the tree,
and I did eat.

   ELOHIM (sternly Eve, what is this thou hast done?

   EVE (ashamedly The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

   ELOHIM (angrily Lucifer, what hast thou been doing here?

   LUCIFER (arrogantly I have been doing that which has been
done in other worlds.

   ELOHIM What is that?

   LUCIFER (arrogantly I have been giving some of the fruit of
the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil to them.

   ELOHIM (judgementally Lucifer, because thou hast done this,
thou shalt be cursed above all the beasts of the field.  Upon thy
belly shalt thou go and dust thou shalt eat all the days of thy
life.

   LUCIFER (defiantly If thou curseth me for doing the same thing
which has been done in other worlds, I will take the spirits that
follow me, and they shall possess the bodies thou createst for
Adam and Eve.

   ELOHIM I will place enmity between thee and the seed of the
woman.  Thou mayest have power to bruise his heel, but he shall
have power to crush thy head.

   LUCIFER (vehemently Then with that enmity I will take the
treasures of the earth, and with gold and silver I will buy up
armies and navies, Popes and Priests, and reign with blood and
horror on this earth.

   ELOHIM (authoritatively Depart!

   ELOHIM (turning to Jehovah Jehovah, let cherubim and flaming
sword be placed to guard the way of the Tree of Life, lest Adam
put forth his hand and partake of the fruit thereof, and live
forever in his sins.

* Note how often Lucifer voices instructions and teaches
 doctrine

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  (Turns away and gives
command Let cherubim an a flaming sword be placed to guard the
way of the Tree of Life, lest Adam put forth his hand and partake
of the fruit thereof, and live forever in his sins.  (turns back
to Elohim It is done, Elohim.

   ELOHIM (judgementally Eve, because thou hast hearkened to the
voice of Satan and hast partaken of the forbidden fruit, and
given unto Adam, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy
conception; in sorrow shalt thou bring forth children.  Neverthe
less thou mayest be preserved in child-bearing.  Thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee in righteousness.

   Adam, because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife and
hast partaken of the forbidden fruit, the earth shall be cursed
for thy sake.  Instead of producing fruits and flowers
spontaneously, it shall bring forth thorns, thistles, briars and
noxious weeds to afflict and torment man.  And by the sweat of
thy face shalt thou eat thy bread all the days of thy life.  For
dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

   THE LAW OF OBEDIENCE

   ELOHIM (condescendingly Inasmuch as Eve was the first to eat
of the forbidden fruit, if she will covenant that from this time
forth she will obey your law in the Lord, and will harken unto
your council as you harken unto mine, and if you will covenant
that from this time forth you will obey the law of Elohim, we
will give unto you the law of obedience and sacrifice, and we
will provide a Savior for you whereby you may come back into our
presence, and with us partake of eternal life and exaltation.

   EVE (humbly Adam, I now covenant to obey your law as you obey
our Father.

   ADAM (humbly Elohim, I now covenant with you that from this
time forth I will obey your law and keep your commandments.
ELOHIM It is well, Adam.  Jehovah, inasmuch as Adam and Eve have
discovered their nakedness, make coats of skins as a covering for
them.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.

   NARRATOR Brethren and Sisters, the garment that was placed upon
you in the washing room is to cover your nakedness and
represents the coat of skins spoken of.  Anciently it was made of
skins.  You have received the garment, also your New Name.  The
Officiator will represent Elohim at the altar.  A couple will now
come to the altar (a pre-selected "witness couple"* seated front
row center aisle come forward and kneel at the altar facing
forward.

   It is considered a very special experience to be selected to be
the "witness couple".  As they represent all the patrons at the
altar, the Endowment takes on a very 'realistic' atmosphere for
his couple as they move back and forth to the altar to receive
the tokens and actually take part in the ceremony.  Dolly and I
were selected twice in approximately 150 Endowment ceremonies in
nine years, and I remember the experience clearly.

   Brethren and Sisters, this couple at the altar represent all of
you as if at the altar.  You must consider yourselves as if you
were respectively Adam and Eve.

   ELOHIM We will put the sisters under covenant to obey the law
of their husbands.  Sisters, arise (sisters all stand up.  Each
of you bring your right arm to the square.  You and each of you
solemnly covenant and promise before God, angels, and these
witnesses at this altar that you will each observe and keep the
law of your husband, and abide by his council in righteousness.
Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   SISTERS Yes.

   ELOHIM That will do.  (sisters sit down Brethren, arise
(bretheren all stand up.  Bring your right arm to the square.
You and each of you solemnly covenant and promise before God,
angels and these witnesses at this altar that you will obey the
law of God and keep His commandments.  Each of you bow your head
and say yes.

   BRETHREN Yes.

   ELOHIM That will do.  (Bretheren all sit down

   LAW OF SACRIFICE

   ELOHIM You are now about to be put under covenant to obey and
keep the Law of Sacrifice, as contained in the Old and the New
Testament.  This Law of Sacrifice was given to Adam in the Garden
of Eden, who, when he was driven out of the Garden, built an
altar on which he offered sacrifices.  And after many days, an
angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam saying: "Why dost thou offer
sacrifice unto the Lord?" And Adam said unto him: "I know not,
save the Lord commanded me." And then the angel spake saying:
"This thing is a similitude of the Sacrifice of the Only Begotten
of the Father, who is full of grace and truth.  Wherefore, thou
shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou
shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forever-
more." The posterity of Adam down to Moses and from Moses to
Jesus Christ offered up the first fruits of the field and
firstlings of the flock, which continued until the death of Jesus
Christ, which ended sacrifice by the shedding of blood.

   And as Jesus Christ has laid down his life for the redemption of
mankind so we should covenant to sacrifice all that we possess,
even our own lives if necessary, in sustaining and defending the
Kingdom of God (the Mormon Church is the Kingdom of God.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.  Each of you bring your right
arm to the square.  You and each of you solemnly covenant and
promise before God, angels, and these witnesses at this altar
that you will observe and keep the law of sacrifice as contained
in the Old and the New Testaments, as it has been explained to
you.  Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   BRETHREN AND SISTERS (all bow their head Yes.

   ELOHIM That will do (patrons all sit down.

   FIRST TOKEN OF THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD

   ELOHIM We now give unto you the First Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Before
doing this, however, we desire to impress upon your minds the
sacred character of the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood,
with its accompanying name, sign and penalty, as well as that of
all the other Tokens of the Holy Priesthood, with their names,
signs and penalties, which you will receive in the temple this
day.  They are most sacred and are guarded by solemn covenants
and obligations of secrecy to the effect that under no condition,
even at the peril of your life, will you ever divulge them,
except at a certain place that will be shown you hereafter.  The
representation of the execution of the penalties indicates
different ways in which life may be taken.

   The First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood is given by clasping
the right hands and placing the joint of the thumb directly over
the first knuckle of the hand, in this manner (the Officiator
takes the Brother kneeling at the altar by the right hand and
demonstrates the token to the audience.

   We give unto you the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood.  We
desire all to receive it....

   All arise (The patrons all stand in place.  The witness couple
return to their seats.  Several temple workers circulate through
the rows of patrons giving each one the token.  The patrons sit
down after each receives it.

   If any of you did not receive this token you will please raise
your hands.

   The name of this token is the New Name that you received in the
temple today.  If any of you have forgotten the New Name, please
stand.  (pause* The sign is made by bringing the right arm to
the square; the palm of the hand to the front, the fingers close
together, and the thumb extended.  (The Officiator demonstrates
the sign to the audience This is the sign.

   (The Officiator continues to demonstrate the instructions

   If a patron stands up, indicating he has forgotten the New Name,
he is taken by a Temple Worker to the rear of the room where the
New Name is whispered in his ear.  He then returns to his seat,
and the ceremony then resumes.  This gives the false impression
that there is more than one New Name in use.  Many patrons have
attended the Temple for years before the realized that everyone
has the same New Name.

   The execution of the penalty is represented by placing the thumb
under the left ear, the palm of the hand down, and by drawing the
thumb quickly across the throat to the right ear, and dropping
the hand to the side.

   I will now explain the covenant and obligation of secrecy which
are associated with this token, its name, sign and penalty and
which you will be required to take upon yourselves.  If I were
receiving my own Endowment today and had been given the name of
John as my New Name, I would repeat in my mind these words, after
making the sign (he makes the sign, at the same time
representing the execution of the penalty.

   I, John, covenant that I will never reveal the first token of the
Aaronic Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign, and
penalty.  Rather than do so, I would suffer (pause, places right
thumb under left ear my life (pause, draws thumb quickly across
throat to right ear to be taken (drops hands to side.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.

   Each of you make the sign of the First Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood by bringing your right arm to the squares, the palm of
the hand to the front, the fingers close together, and the thumb
extended.

   (Patrons all make the sign.

   This is the sign.

   Now, repeat in your minds after me the words of the covenant, at
the same time representing the execution of the penalty.

   I, think of the New Name, covenant that I will never reveal the
First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood, with its accompanying
name, sign and penalty.  Rather than do so, I would suffer
(patrons all place right thumb under left ear as described above
my life (patrons all draw thumb across their throat to the right
ear to be taken (Patrons all drop the hand to their side.

   That will do (patrons all sit down.

   (If any of the brethren or sisters make a mistake in the
execution of the penalty, the execution of the penalty is
repeated by all of the patrons together as instructed.

   It is necessary to repeat the sign of the execution of the
penalty.  The sign of the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood
is made by bringing the right arm to the square, the palm of the
hand to the front, the fingers close together, and the thumb
extended.  This is the sign (patrons all make sign.  It is not
necessary to repeat again the words of the covenant in
representing the execution of the penalty, but let the name of
the token pass through your mind.  Now represent the execution of
the penalty (patrons all execute the penalty.

   That will do (patrons all sit down.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, see that Adam is driven out of this beautiful
garden into the lone and dreary world, where he may learn from
his own experience to distinguish good from evil.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.

   THE LONE AND DREARY WORLD

   NARRATOR We will now go with Adam and Eve to the lone and
dreary world.  Brethren and Sisters, this represents the
Telestial Kingdom, or the world in which we now live.  Adam, upon
finding himself in the lone and dreary world, built an altar and
offered prayer, and these are the words he uttered:

   ADAM (hands raised up and looking toward heaven
 Oh God, hear the words of my mouth!
 Oh God, hear the words of my mouth!
 Oh God, hear the words of my mouth!

   LUCIFER (arrogant voice from off scene I hear you.  (Camera
pans left to show towering, arrogant, colorful Lucifer poised
near Adam, Lucifer walks over to Adam.  What is it you want?

   ADAM (surprised Who are you?

   LUCIFER (arrogantly I am the God of this world.

   ADAM (unsure, questioning You, the God of this world?

   LUCIFER Yes, what do you want?

   ADAM I am looking for messengers.

   LUCIFER (expresses a smug, wise grin Oh, you want someone to
preach to you.  You want religion do you.  I will have preachers
here presently.  (Lucifer turns and looks left.  Camera pans to
approaching figure dressed in dark blue ministerial robe and
priest's collar until he walks up to Lucifer.  Good Morning Sir.

   PREACHER (wisely Good morning! (looking into the audience A
fine congregation.

LUCIFER Yes, they are very good people.  They are concerned
about religion.  Are you a preacher?

   PREACHER (proudly with emphasis I am.

   LUCIFER (searchingly Have you been to college and received
training for the ministry?

   PREACHER (proudly with emphasis Certainly! A man cannot
preach unless he has been trained for the ministry!

   LUCIFER Do you preach the orthodox religion?

   PREACHER (proudly with emphasis Yes, that is what I preach.

   LUCIFER If you will preach your orthodox religion to these
people and convert them, I will pay you well.

   PREACHER I will do my best.

LUCIFER (looks and gestures toward Adam and Eve Here is a man
who desires religion.  He is very much exercised, and seems to be
sincere (Lucifer steps back as Preacher approaches Adam and Eve.

   PREACHER (authoritatively I understand you are inquiring after
religion.

   ADAM (sincerely I was calling upon Father.

   PREACHER (dramatically, with gestures I am glad to know that
you were calling upon Father.  Do you believe in a God who is
without body, parts and passions, who sits on the top of a
topless throne, whose center is everywhere and whose
circumference is nowhere; who fills the universe, and yet is so
small that he can dwell in your heart.  Who is surrounded by
miriads of beings who have been saved by Grace, not by any act of
theirs, but by His good pleasure.  Do you believe in this great
Being?

   ADAM (emphatically I do not.  I cannot comprehend such a
Being.

   PREACHER (wistfully That is the beauty of it.  (reproachful
ly Perhaps you do not believe in the devil and in that great
hell, the bottomless pit, where there is a lake of fire and
brimstone, into which the wicked are cast, and where they are
continually burning but are never consumed?

   ADAM (emphatically I do not believe in any such place.

   PREACHER (reproachfully My dear friend, I am sorry for you.

   LUCIFER (disgustedly I am sorry! very, very sorry!
(searchingly What is it you want?

   ADAM (sincerely I am looking for messengers from my Father.

   ELOHIM (Scene fades to etheral view of magnificent, huge throne
set - with semi circle of towering Greecian columns, broad steps,
Celestial splendor.  Elohim majestically towering above Jehovah,
both appearing as in Garden scene.  Jehovah, send down Peter,
James and John to visit the man Adam in the Telestial World,
without disclosing their identity.  Have them observe conditions
generally, see if Satan is there, and learn whether Adam has been
true to the token and sign given to him in the Garden of Eden.
Have them then return and bring me word.

   JEHOVAH (reverently and submissively It shall be done, Elohim.
(Jehovah turns and walk from the presence of Elohim to the edge
of the great columned set, there Peter, James and John reverently
enter amid rolling clouds [stage smoke] in an etherial view.
Peter, James and John are wearing long, full, shepherd type robes
with colorful sashes.

   JEHOVAH Peter, James and John, go down and visit the man Adam
in the Telestial World, without disclosing your identity.
Observe conditions generally.  See if Satan is there, and learn
whether Adam has been true to the token and sign given to him in
the Garden of Eden.  Then return and bring us word.

   PETER (reverently and submissively It shall be done, Jehovah.
Come James and John, let us go down.

   JAMES (reverently and submissively We will go down.

   JOHN (reverently and submissively We will go down.

   (All turn and exit scene in single file, Peter leading.  Scene
fades back to Lone and Dreary World.  Peter, James and John file
into scene, Peter leading, approaches Lucifer, who turns toward
him.

   PETER Good morning.

   LUCIFER Good morning.

   PETER (intently What are you doing here?

   LUCIFER Teaching religion.

   PETER (searchingly What religion do you teach?

   LUCIFER (proudly with emphasis We teach a religion made of
the philosophies of men, mingled with Scripture.

   PETER How is your religion received by this community?

   LUCIFER Very well -- excepting this man.  He does not seem to
believe anything we preach.  (Peter, James & John turn from
Lucifer and walk over to Adam and Eve

   PETER (intently Good morning.  What do you think of the
preaching of these gentlemen?

   ADAM (intently I cannot comprehend it.

   PETER (searchingly Can you give us some idea concerning it?

   ADAM (expresses wonderment They preach of a God who is
without body, parts or passions, who is so large he fills the
universe and yet so small that he can dwell in my heart, and of a
hell without a bottom where the wicked are continually burning
but are never consumed.  To me it is a mass of confusion.

   PETER (sympathetically We do not wonder that you cannot
comprehend such doctrine.  Have you any tokens or signs? (Lucifer
enters the scene and interrupts the conversation.

   LUCIFER (dramatically, with gestures Do you have any money?

   PETER We have sufficient for our needs.

   LUCIFER (dramatically, with gestures You can buy anything in
this world for money.

   PETER (turns back to Adam, searchingly Do you sell your
tokens or signs for money? You have them, I presume.

   ADAM (sincerely I have them, but I do not sell them for
money.  I hold them sacred.  I am looking for the further light
and knowledge Father promised to send me.

   PETER That is right.  We commend you for your integrity.  Good
day.  (Peter, James and John turn and exit, single file, Peter
leading, stop at the edge of the set.  We shall probably visit
you again.  (Peter, James and John exit set.  Camera pans to
Lucifer who approaches camera ominously and threateningly.  Looks
intently into the audience.

   LUCIFER (vehemently Now is the great day of my power.  I reign
from the rivers to the ends of the earth.  There is none who
dares to molest or make afraid.

   PREACHER (curiously Shall we ever have any apostles or
prophets?

   LUCIFER (proudly No.  However there may be some who will
profess revelation or apostleship.  If so, just test them by
asking them to perform a great miracle, such as cutting off an
arm or some other member of the body, and restoring it, so that
the people may know that they come with power.  (scene fades to
Elohim's columned throne set.  Peter, James and John enter single
file, Peter leading [amid stage smoke] and approach Jehovah who
has been awaiting their return.

   PETER Jehovah, we have been to the man Adam in the Telestial
World as thou didst command.  We found Satan there, with his
ministers, preaching all manner of false doctrine, and striving
to lead the posterity of Adam astray.  But Adam has been true and
faithful to the token and sign given to him in the Garden of
Eden, and is waiting for the further light and knowledge you
promised to send him.  This is our report.

   JEHOVAH It is well, Peter, James and John.  (Jehovah turns and
ascends the set width stairs to approach Elohim, standing
majestically at the top.  Elohim, Peter, James and John have
been down to the man Adam in the Telestial World.  They found
Satan there with his ministers preaching all manner of false
doctrine, and striving to lead the posterity of Adam astray.  But
Adam has been true and faithful to the token and sign given him
in the Garden of Eden, and he is waiting for the further light
and knowledge you promised to send him.  This is their report.

   ELOHIM It is well.  Jehovah, instruct Peter, James and John to
go down in their true character as Apostles of the Lord Jesus
Christ, to the man Adam and his posterity in the Telestial World,
and to cast Satan out of their midst.  Instruct them to give unto
Adam and his posterity the Law of the Gospel as contained in the
Book of Mormon and the Bible.  Also a charge to avoid all light
mindedness, loud laughter, evil speaking of the Lord's anointed,
the taking of the name of the God in vain, and every other unholy
and impure practice, and cause these to be received by covenant.

   Instruct Peter, James and John further to clothe Adam and his
posterity in the robes of the Holy Priesthood, with the robe on
the left shoulder, and to give unto them the second token of the
Aaronic Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.
Then have them return and bring me word.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  (Jehovah turns, descends
stairs, approaches Peter, James and John Peter, James and John,
go down in your true character as Apostles of the Lord Jesus
Christ to the man Adam and his posterity in the Telestial World.
Cast Satan out of their midst.  Give unto them the Law of the
Gospel as contained in the Book of Mormon and the Bible.  Also a
charge to avoid all light mindedness, loud laughter, evil
speaking of the Lord's anointed, the taking of the name of God in
vain, and even other unholy and impure practice.  Cause them to
receive these by covenant.  Clothe them in the robes of the Holy
Priesthood, with the robe on the left shoulder, and give unto
them the second token of the Aaronic Priesthood, with its
accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Then return and bring us
word.

   PETER It shall be done, Jehovah.  Come James and John, let us
go down.

   JAMES We will go down.

   JOHN We will go down.

   (Peter, James and John turn and exit scene as before.  Scene
fades to Lone and Dreary World set.  Everyone is idle as Peter,
James and John file into set, and approaches Lucifer as before.

   PETER I am Peter.

   JAMES I am James.

   JOHN I am John.

   LUCIFER (reproachfully Yes, I thought I knew you.  (turns to
preacher, who is listening, dramatically Do you know who these
men are? They claim to be apostles.  Try them!

   (Lucifer backs away and Preacher steps up to Peter

   PREACHER (searchingly Do you profess to be apostles of the
Lord Jesus Christ?

   PETER (confidently We do.

   PREACHER (with sophistication This man told me that we should
never have any revelation or apostles, but if any should come
professing to be apostles, I was to ask them to cut off an arm or
some other member of the body and then restore it, so that the
people might know that they came with power.

   PETER (reproachfully We do not satisfy man's curiosity in
that manner.  It is a wicked and an adulterous generation that
seeks for a sign.  Do you know who that man is? He is Satan!

   PREACHER (surprised What! The Devil?

   PETER That is one of his names.

   PREACHER (sincerely He is quite a different person from what
he told me the Devil is.  He said the Devil has claws like a
bear's on his hands, horns on his head, and a cloven hoof, and
that when he speaks he has the roar of a lion!

   PETER (confidently He has said this to deceive you, and I
would advise you to get out of his employ.

   PREACHER (doubtfully Your advice is good.  But, if I leave his
employ, what will become of me?

   PETER (wisely We will preach the gospel unto you with the
rest of Adam's posterity.

   PREACHER (with satisfaction That is good.  (turns to Lucifer
who is watching nearby (deliberately I would like to have a
settlement.  I want you to pay me for preaching.

   LUCIFER (Proudly with emphasis) I am ready to keep my word and
fulfill my part of the agreement.  (reproachfully I promised to
pay you, if you would convert these people, and they have nearly
converted you.  You can get out of my kingdom.  I want no such
men in it.  (Preacher backs out of scene as Lucifer approaches
Peter - arrogantly Now, what are you going to do?

   PETER (reproachfully We will dismiss you without further
argument.

   LUCIFER (dramatically, with gestures Aah! you have looked
over my kingdom, and my greatness and glory.  Now you want to take
possession of the whole of it.  (Lucifer turns, approaches
the camera, eyes on, ominously, speaks sinisterly - with
vehemence [high drama] I have a word to say concerning these
people.  If they do not walk up to every covenant they make at
these altars in this temple this day, they will be in my power.*

   PETER (voice from off camera, commandingly.  Camera pans and
zooms back to include Peter, James and John Satan, we command
you to depart.

   LUCIFER (turns toward Peter, James and John - arrogantly By
what authority?

   PETER (Right arm to the square - judgementally In the name of
Jesus Christ, our Master.  (Satan very emotionally turns and
departs scene, Peter turns and approaches Adam and Eve Adam, we
are true messengers from the father, and have come down to give
unto you the further light and knowledge he promised to send you.

   ADAM (searchingly How shall I know that you are true
messengers?

   PETER (confidently By our giving unto you the token and sign
you received in the Garden of Eden.

   ADAM (taking Peter by the right hand, but out of view What is
that?

   PETER The first token of the Aaronic Priesthood.

   ADAM Has it a name?

   PETER It has.

   ADAM Will you give it to me?

   PETER I cannot, for it is the New Name, but this is the sign
(right arm elevated to the square.  And this represents the
execution of the penalty (Thumb of right hand across throat.

   Lucifer still giving forth doctrine

   ADAM Now I know that you are true messengers sent down from
Father.  (turns to audience These are true messengers.  I exhort
you to give strict heed to their counsel and teachings, and they
will lead you in the way of life and salvation.

   NARRATOR The Officiator will represent Peter at the altar.

   At this point the motion picture presentation is concluded.  The
remainder of the presentation is from tape recording.

   THE LAW OF THE GOSPEL

   PETER A couple will now come to the altar (the witness couple
comes forward and kneels at the altar.  Brethren and Sisters,
this couple at the altar represent all of you as if at the altar,
and you will be under the same obligations that they will be.  We
are required to give unto you the Law of the Gospel as contained
in the Book of Mormon and the Bible.  To give unto you also a
charge to avoid all light mindedness, loud laughter, evil
speaking of the Lord's Anointed, the taking of the name of God in
vain, and every other unholy and impure practice, and to cause
you to receive these by covenant.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.  Each of you bring your right
arm to the square (patrons all raise right arm to the square.

   You and each of you covenant and promise before God, angels and
these witnesses at this altar, that you will observe and keep the
Law of the Gospel and this charge as it has been explained to
you.  Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   BRETHREN AND SISTERS (all bow their head Yes.

   PETER That will do (patrons all sit down.

   THE ROBES OF THE HOLY PRIESTHOOD

   PETER We are instructed to clothe you in the robes of the Holy
Priesthood.  Place the robe on the left shoulder, place the cap
on your head with the bow over the right ear, replace the apron,
tie the girdle with the bow on the right side, remove the
slippers from your feet, and put them on again as part of the
Temple Clothing.  You may now proceed to clothe.

   The patrons all stand, and turn around to use their seat as a
dressing table.  The remove the green fig-leaf apron and the
slippers from their feet, open their package of Temple clothing,
and commence dressing by placing the long white robe on their
left shoulder and tie it in at the waist on the right side.  Next
they put on the hat* (or veil for women) with the bow over the

   *The hat looks like a baker's hat without the wide band.  It has
a bow on one side and a string on the opposite side.

   right ear, and then tie the string from the hat to the shoulder
loop of the rope.  Next they replace the green apron at the
waist, and then tie the long six inch wide sash in a large bow at
the right side of the waist.  They then sit down and replace the
slippers on their feet

   SECOND TOKEN OF THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD

   PETER A couple will now come to the altar (the witness couple
comes forward and kneel at the altar.  With the robe on the left
shoulder, you are prepared to officiate in the ordinances of the
Aaronic Priesthood.  We will now give unto you the Second Token
of the Aaronic Priesthood with its accompanying name, sign and
penalty.  This token is given by clasping the right hands and
placing the joint of the thumb between the first and second
knuckles of the hand, in this manner (Officiator takes brother at
the altar in the grip and shows the audience.

   We desire all to receive it.  All arise.  (The witness couple
stand up and return to their seats.  All patrons stand up in
place and receive the token from one of the temple workers who
circulate through the rows.  Then they sit down.  If any of you
have not received this token, will you please raise your hand.

   The name of this token is your own first given name if you are
going through the temple for your own Endowment, or if you are
going through for the dead, it is the first given name of the
person for whom you are officiating.

   PETER (the Officiator demonstrates the sign as the instructions
are given The sign is made by bringing the right hand in front of
you, with the hand in cupping shape, the right arm forming a
square, the left arm being raised to the square.  This is the
sign.  The execution of the penalty is represented by placing the
right hand on the left breast, drawing the hand quickly across
the body, and dropping the hand to the sides.  I will now explain
the covenant and obligation to secrecy which are associated with
this token, its name, sign and penalty, and which you will be
required to take upon yourself.

   If I were receiving my own Endowement today, and if my first
given name were David, I would repeat in my mind these words,
after making the sign, at the same time representing the
execution of the penalty (Officiator, still making the sign,
demonstrates the execution of the penalty.  I, David, covenant
that I will never reveal the second token of the Aaronic
Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Rather
than do so, I would suffer (pause, right hand to left breast my
life (pause, draws hand across chest to right breast to be taken
(drops hands to side.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.

   Each of you make the sign of the Second Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood by bringing the right hand in front of you, with the
hand in cupping shape, the right arm forming a square, and the
left arm being raised to the square.  This is the sign.

   Patrons all make the sign

   Now repeat in your minds after me the words of the covenant, at
the same time representing the execution of the penalty.

   I, think of the first given name, covenant that I will never
reveal the second token of the Aaronic Priesthood, with its
accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Rather than do so, I would
suffer (patrons all place left hand on right breast my life
(patrons all draw left hand quickly across the body to be taken
(patrons all drop both hands to the sides.  That will do
(patrons all sit down.

   (If any one of the brethren or sisters makes a mistake in the
execution of the penalty, the execution of the penalty is
repeated by all patrons together, as before.

   The tape resumes

   PETER Jehovah, we have been down to the man Adam and his
posterity in the Telestial world, and have cast Satan out of
their midst.  We have given unto them the Law of the Gospel as
contained in the Book of Mormon and the Bible.  Also a charge to
avoid all light mindedness, loud laughter, evil speaking of the
Lord's anointed, the taking of the name of God in vain, and every
other unholy and impure practice, and have caused them to receive
these by covenant.  We have also clothed them in the robes of the
Holy Priesthood and have given unto them the Second Token of the
Aaronic Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.
This is our report.

   JEHOVAH It is well, Peter, James and John.  (Jehovah repeats the
same report to Elohim - who is pleased - and gives Jehovah
further instructions for Peter, James and John to return again to
Adam in the Telestial World and to give unto Adam instructions to
change his robe to the right shoulder preparatory to receiving
the ordinances of the Melchizedek Priesthood and to administer to
Adam the Law of Chastity and introduce him into the Terrestial
World.  Jehovah then instructs Peter, James and John.  They
accept the instructions and depart)

   PETER We are instructed to have you change your robe to the
right shoulder, preparatory to officiating in the ordinances of
the Melchizedek Priesthood, and to introduce you into the
Terrestial World.  You may now make the change by removing the
robe (the room light level is increased to represent the change
to the Terrestial World.

   The patrons all stand, turn around to use their seat as a clothes
stand, nd proceed to remove the hat, sash, apron, robe and
slippers.  They put the robe on again, but on the right shoulder,
then put all of the other items on reversed, with the bow of the
hat on the right ear and the sash tied to the left side.  They
sit down an put on the slippers

   THE TERRESTIAL WORLD
   Law of Chastity

   PETER A couple will now come to the altar (the witness couple
come forward and kneel at the altar as before .  We are
instructed to give unto you the Law of Chastity.  This I will
explain to you.  To the sisters, it is that no one of you will
have sexual intercourse except with your husband to whom you are
legally and lawfully wedded.  To the brethren, it is that no one
of you will have sexual intercourse except with your wife to whom
you are legally and lawfully wedded.

   Sisters, please arise (sisters all stand up.  Each of you bring
your right arm to the square.  You and each of you covenant and
promise before God, angels and these witnesses at this altar that
you will observe and keep the Law of Chastity, as it has been
explained to you.  Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   SISTERS (all bow their head Yes.)

   PETER That will do (sisters all sit down.)

   Brethren, please arise (brethren all stand up.  Each of you
bring your right arm to the square.  You and each of you covenant
and promise before God, angels and these witnesses at this altar
that you will observe and keep the Law of Chastity as it has been
explained to you.  Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   BRETHREN (all bow their head Yes.)

   PETER That will do (brethren all sit down.

   FIRST TOKEN OF THE MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD
  OR THE SIGN OF THE NAIL

   PETER (the Officiator demonstrates the instructions before the
audience as the tape plays We will now give unto you the first
token of the Melchizedek Priesthood or sign of the nail, with its
accompanying name, sign and penalty.  This token is received by
bringing the right hand into this position.  The hand vertical,
the fingers close together, and the thumb extended.  And the
person giving the token placing the tip of the forefinger of his
right hand in the center of the palm, and the thumb opposite on
the back of the hand of the one receiving it, in this manner.  We
desire all to receive it.  All arise.

   The witness couple stand up and return to their seats as the
patrons all stand and receive the token from one of the temple
workers, then sit down.

PETER If any of you have not received this token, please you
will please raise your hand.

   The name of this token is "The Son", meaning the Son of God.

   The sign is made by bringing the left hand in front of you with
the hand in cupped shape, the left arm forming a square, the
right hand is also brought forward, the palm down, the fingers
close together, thumb extended, and the thumb is placed over the
left hip (Officiator makes the sign facing the audience as
before.  This is the sign.  The execution of the penalty is
represented by drawing the thumb quickly across the body and
dropping the hands to the side (Officiator demonstrates execution
of the penalty.

   I will now explain the covenant and obligation of secrecy which
are associated with this token, its name, sign, and penalty, and
which you will be required to take upon yourselves.  If I were
receiving the Endowment today, either for myself or for the dead,
I would repeat in my mind these words, after making the sign
(Officiator makes the sign, at the same time representing the
execution of the penalty.  I covenant in the name of the Son that
I will never reveal the first token of the Melchizedek Priesthood
or sign of the nail, with its accompanying name, sign and
penalty.  Rather that do so, I would suffer my life (pause, draws
right thumb across body to be taken (drops hands to his sides.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.)

   Each of you make the sign of the first token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood or sign of the nail by bringing the left hand in front
of you with the hand in cupping shape, the left arm forming a
square.  The right hand is also brought forward, the palm down,
the fingers close together and the thumb extended and the thumb
is placed over the left hip.  (Patrons all make the sign This is
the sign.

   Now repeat in your minds after me the words of the covenant, at
the same time representing the execution of the penalty.

   I covenant in the name of the Son that I will never reveal the
first token of the Melchizedek Priesthood or sign of the nail,
with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Rather than do so, I
would suffer my life (patrons all draw their right thumb quickly
across their body to be taken (patrons all drop both hands to
their sides.

   That will do (patrons all sit down.)

   (If any of the bretheren or sisters makes a mistake in the
execution of the penalty, the execution of the penalty is
repeated by all the patrons as with previous penalties.)

   PETER: We will return and report.

   Jehovah, we have been down to the man Adam and his posterity,
have placed the robe on the right shoulder and have introduced
them into the Terrestial world.  We have put them under covenant
to observe and keep the law of chastity.  We have also given them
the first token of the Melchizidek Priesthood, or sign of the
nail, with its accompanying name, sign, and penalty.  This is our
report.

   JEHOVAH: It is well Peter, James and John.

   Elohim, Peter, James and John have been down to the man Adam and
his posterity, have placed the robe on the right shoulder, and
have introduced them into the Terrestial world.  They have also
put them under covenant to observe and keep the law of chastity.
They have given unto them, the First Token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood, or Sign of the Nail, with its accompanying name, sign
and penalty.  This is their report.

   ELOHIM: It is well.  Jehovah, send down Peter, James, and John
and instruct them to give to the man Adam and his posterity in
the Terrestial World the law of consecration in connection with
the Law of the Gospel and the Law of Sacrifice, and to cause them
to receive it by covenant.  To give unto them the second token of
the Melchizedek Priesthood, the Pariarchial Grip or sure sign of
the nail, with its accompanying sign, and to teach them the order
of prayer, and to prepare them in all things to receive further
instructions at the veil.  Then have them report at the veil.

   JEHOVAH: It shall be done Elohim.  Peter, James, and John, go
down to the man Adam and his posterity in the Terrestrial World,
and give unto them the Law of Consecration, in connection with
the Law of the Gospel and the Law of Sacrifice, and cause them to
receive it by covenant.  Give unto them the second Token of the
Melchizedek Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip, or sure sign of the
nail, with its accompanying sign.  Teach them the Order of Prayer
and prepare them in all things to receive further instruction at
the veil.  Then report at the veil.

   PETER: It shall be done Jehovah.  Come James and John, let us go
down.

   LAW OF CONSECRATION

   PETER: A couple will now come to the altar (the witness couple
come forward and they kneel at the altar as before.  We are
instructed to give unto you the Law of Consecration as contained
in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants (picks up Doctrine and
Covenants from the altar, in connection with the Law of the
Gospel and the Law of Sacrifice which you have already received.
It is that you do consecrate yourselves, your time, talents and
everything with which the Lord has blessed you, or with which he
may bless you, to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, for the building up of the Kingdom of God on the earth
and for the establishment of Zion.

   All Arise (patrons all stand up.  Each of you bring your right
arm to the square.

   You and each of you covenant before God, angels and these
witnesses at this altar that you will observe and keep the Law of
Consecration as contained in this the book of Doctrine and
Covenants.  It is that you do consecrate yourselves, your time,
talents and everything with which the Lord has blessed you or
with which he may bless you, to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, for the building up of the Kingdom of God on
the earth and for the establishment of Zion.

   Each of you bow your heads and say yes.

   BRETHREN and SISTERS: (all bow their head Yes.)

   PETER That will do (patrons all sit down)

   SECOND TOKEN OF THE MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD

   The Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail

   PETER: (the Officiator demonstrates the token with the Brother
at the altar We will now give you the second token of the
Melchizedek Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the
Nail, with its accompanying sign.  This token is given by clasping
the right hands interlocking the little finger, and placing the
tip of the forefinger on the center of the wrist, in this manner
(shows the audience the token.  We desire all to receive it.  All
arise.

   The witness couple stand up and return to their seats as the
patrons all stand and each one receives the secret grip from on
of the temple workers who circulate through the rows of patrons

   If any of you have not received this token you will please raise
your hand.

   This token has a name and a sign but no penalty is mentioned.
However, you will be under just as sacred obligation of secrecy
in connection with this token and sign as you are with the other
tokens and signs of the Holy Priesthood which you have received in
the Temple this day.  The name of this token will not be given to
you at this stage of the Endowment, but it will be given later
on.

   The Officiator demonstrates the sign.

   The sign is made by raising both hands high above the head, and
while lowering the hands repeating aloud the words:

   Pay lay ale
 Pay lay ale
 Pay lay ale

   The Officiator raises and lowers his hands three times in
synchonysm with the words.

   When Adam was driven out of the Garden of Eden, he built an altar
and offered prayer, and these are the words he used, Which
interpreted are: "Oh God, hear the words of my mouth." repeated
three times.*

   We desire all to receive it.  All arise (patrons all stand up.
Each of you make the sign of the second token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail by
raising both hands high above the head, and by lowering your
hands to your sides, while repeating the words of the prayer.

   BRETHREN and SISTERS: (Patrons all make the sign by raising and
lowering their hands three times while reciting the words in
unison Pay lay ale, Pay lay ale, Pay lay ale.

   PETER:That will do (patrons all sit down.)

   A lecture will next be given, which summarizes the instructions,
ordinances and covenants, and also the tokens with their key
words, signs and penalties, pertaining to the endowment which you
have thus far received.  You should try to remember and keep in
mind all that you have heard and seen and may yet hear and see in
this Temple this day.  The purpose of this lecture is to assist
you to remember that which has been taught you this day.  You must
keep in mind that you are under a solemn obligation never to
speak, outside of these walls, of the things you see and hear in
this sacred place.

   LECTURE BEFORE THE VEIL

   Lecturer: Brethren and sisters, these Endowments as herein
administered, long withheld from the children of men, pertain to
the dispensation of the fulness of times and have been revealed
to prepare the people for exaltation.

   (The Lecturer explains to the patrons what they have gone
through, from the Washing and Anointing Room to the time they
receive this lecture.  He mentions that they have received the
keys of the Priesthood contained in the Endowments.

   These are what are termed the mysteries of Godliness and they
will enable you to understand the expression of Jesus made prior
to his betrayal - This is life eternal, that they might know
thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.
May God bless you all.  Amen.

   Another translation of these words, from Biblical Hebrew, is
"Wonderful Lucifer" repeated three times.  See Strong's
Concordance, Hebrew Dictionary section, words #6382 and #1966.
Note that on page 27 it is Lucifer who answers Adam's prayer

   THE PRAYER CIRCLE

   PETER: We will now teach you the "True Order of Prayer".  The
witness couple will now come forward and stand at the head of the
altar.  Six or seven other couples will come forward and form a
circle around the altar (the tape recording stops while the
witness couple and several other couples at random come forward
and arrange themselves in a circle of couples around the altar,
men on the right of their partners..

   tape resumes

   John will instruct and lead in the prayer circle (the Officiator
acts as John, pantomiming the tape recording.

   John: If any of you have unkind feelings towards any member
of this circle, you are invited to withdraw, that the Spirit of
the Lord may be unrestrained.  In this circle, we are required to
make all the signs and penalties of the Holy Priesthood.

   (The Officiator and patrons in the prayer circle all make the
signs and penalties as instructed.

   We will begin by making the sign of the first token of the
Aaronic Priesthood, the sign is made by raising the right hand to
the square, the palm forward, the fingers close together, and the
thumb extended.  This is the sign.  The execution of the penalty is
represented by placing the right thumb under the left ear,
drawing the thumb quickly across the throat to the right ear, and
dropping the hand to the side.  The name of this token is the "New
Name".

   We will now make the sign of the second token of the Aaronic
Priesthood by bringing the right hand forward, with the hand in
cupping shape, the right arm forming a square.  The left arm being
raised to the square.  This is the sign.  The execution of the
penalty is represented by placing the right hand on the left
breast, drawing the hand quickly across the body, and dropping
the hand to the side.  The name of this token is the first given
name of the person for whom you are officiating today.

   We will now make the sign of the first token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood, or sign of the nail, by bringing the left hand in
front of you, the hand in cupping shape, the left arm forming a
square.  The right hand is also brought forward, the palm down,
the fingers close together, the thumb extended, and the thumb is
placed over the left hip.  This is the sign.  The execution of the
penalty is represented by drawing the thumb quickly across the
body and dropping the hands to the sides.  The name of this token
is "The Son" meaning the son of God.

   We will now make the sign of the second token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip, or sure sign of the Nail, by
raising both hands high above the head, and while lowering the
hands repeating aloud the words, Pay lay ale; Pay lay ale; Pay
lay ale.

   The sisters will please veil your faces.  The brethren will each
take the sisters at your left by the right hand in the Patriarchial
Grip.  Each of you will raise your left arm to the square and
place your left elbow on the shoulder or arm of the person on
your left.  You will please repeat the words of the prayer.

   (At this point the tape recording stops and the Officiator
actually speaks.  He first carefully checks and adjusts the
position of all patrons in he prayer circle.  Then he kneels at
the Altar inside the circle, facing forward and offers the
prayer.  The Officiator pauses regularly to allow the patrons in
the circle to repeat his words.

   A typical prayer would be as follows:

   Our Eternal Heavenly Father:

   We thank Thee for the privilege of coming to the Temple
 this day and participating in these sacred ordinances
 which are essential to these deceased individuals.  We
 ask you to bless our Prophet, Spencer W.  Kimball, to
 bless the Temple Presidency, and all those who serve
 with them....  (Many other topics may be covered,
 especially the missionaries, missionary programs and
 work, geneological work...  We ask Thee Heavenly Father
 to look with favor upon all those whose names are
 contained on this altar* this day.  We ask Thy healing
 blessing to manifest in all their various needs, to
 restore health and strength to body,mind, and spirit.
 We ask Thee to bless all those who are participating
 here tonight and see them safely home to their
 destination.  We ask you to watch over their families and
 loved ones until they arrive home, in the name of Jesus
 Christ, Amen.

   (Tape recorder resumes, with Officiator and his aide standing
front and center facing the patrons.

   PETER The Sisters will unveil their faces and the Brethren and
Sisters in the circle will return to their seats (patrons return
to their seats.

   We will now uncover the Veil.

   The Officiator and aide take appropriate action to expose a veil
segment to the audience.  The Officiator continues to pantomime
the tape, using a pointer to identify the marks.

   Brethren and Sisters, This is the veil of the Temple.  We will now
explain to you the significance of the marks on the Veil.  These
four marks are the marks of the Holy Priesthood, and
corresponding marks are found on your individual garments.  This
is the mark of the square.  It is located on the garment over the
right breast, signifying exactness and honor in living up to all
of the covenants made in the Temple this day.  This is the mark of
the compass.  It is located in the garment over the breast,
signifying that desires, appetites and passions are to be kept
within the bounds the Lord has established, and that all truth
can be circumscribed into one great whole.  This is the navel
mark.  It is placed in the garment over the navel as a reminder of
the constant need of nourishment to body and spirit.  This is the
knee mark.  It is placed in the right leg of the garment over the
knee, and indicates that every knee shall bow and every tongue
confess that Jesus is the Christ.

   These other three marks are for convenience in working at the
veil.  Through this one the person representing the Lord puts his
right hand to test our knowledge of the tokens of the Holy
priesthood; through this one, he asks us certain questions, and
through this one, we give our answers.

   Since all of you will have to pass through the veil, we will show
you how this is done (the aide is now behind the veil to act as
the Lord.  The Officiator, acting as both Peter and Adam, gives
three taps with the mallet against the doorjam, as the tape
recording continues.

   LORD: What is wanted?

   PETER: Adam, having been true and faithful, desires further
light and knowledge by conversing with the Lord through the veil
(for and in behalf of _____, who is dead.)

   LORD: Present him at the veil and his request shall be granted.

   LORD: (Extends his right hand through the compass mark in the
veil and takes Peter by the right hand in the first token of the
Aaronic Priesthood.  What is that?

   PETER: (Acting as Adam) The first token of the Aaronic
Priesthood.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PETER: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PETER: I will through the veil.  You will now give the New Name
to the Lord through the Veil.

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes Peter by the right hand in the
Second Token of the Aaronic Priesthood.  What is that?

   PETER: The Second token of the Aaronic Priesthood.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PETER: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PETER: I will through the veil.  You will each give your own
first given name if you are going through the Temple for your own
Endowments, or the first given name of the deceased for whom you
are presiding today.

   LORD: What is that?

   PETER: The first token of the Melchizedek Priesthood or Sign of
the Nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PETER: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PETER: I will through the veil - the Son.

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes Peter by the right hand in the
Patriarchal grip What is that?

   PETER: The second token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the
Patriarchal Grip or sure Sign of the nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PETER: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PETER: I cannot.  I have not yet received it.  For this purpose I
have come to converse with the Lord through the veil.

   LORD: You shall receive it upon the five points of fellowship
through the veil.

   PETER:The five points of fellowship are: inside of right boot by
the side of right foot, knee to knee, breast to breast, hand to
back and mouth to ear.  (Peter demonstrates the five points with
the Lord.  The Lord now gives you the name of the token, You will
then repeat it back to him through the veil, whereupon, the Lord
responds, "That is correct." The worker will then give three raps
with the mallet - like this (Officiator taps with the mallet,
and the Lord will ask:

   LORD: What is wanted?

   PETER: Adam, having conversed with the Lord through the veil,
desires now to enter his presence.  The Lord then takes Adam by
the right hand through the opening in the veil and says:

   LORD: Let him enter.

   PETER: The Lord then admits Adam into the Celestial Kingdom.  We
desire all to enter his presence.

   (The Officiator, who until now has not spoken to the audience,
now gives instructions for orderly movement, row by row, of the
patrons into the Telestial Room, where the actual veil is
located.  The patrons then proceed to move to the Telestial Room
and take up seats there.  Still segregated, women on the left, men
on the right.  The entire front of this room, plus extra space to
both sides is filled with approximately 50 veil segments [Los
Angels Temple].  Patrons are called from their seats in groups of
8-10 by the Officiator [still segregated by sex] to the veil
area, where they are assigned to a veil section in turn and then
introduced at the veil.

   Three persons are involved at each veil ceremony: the VEIL
WORKER, who represents the Lord behind the veil; the PATRON, who
is going through the ceremony to obtain entrance into the
Celestial Room, representing the Celestial Kingdom, located
behind the veil; and the INTRODUCER who helps the patron and
introduces him to the Lord.  All Veil Workers are men, but the
veil segments are divided between men and women patrons and women
INTRODUCERS help women Patrons.

   CEREMONY AT THE VEIL

   (As the Patron approaches the veil, the Introducer takes the
Patron's nameslip.  The Introducer taps 3 times on the veil
framework with a small mallet.)

   The Veil Worker parts the veil opening slightly with his right
hand.

   LORD: What is Wanted?

   (The Introducer holds up the Patron's nameslip for the Veil
Worker to read while he is stating the introductions.

   INTRODUCER: Adam, having been true and faithful in all things,
desires further light and knowledge by conversing with the Lord
through the veil (for and in behalf of ____, who is dead).

   (The Veil Worker reads the nameslip and notes if the alternate
New Name has been given [The name of the First Token of the
Aaronic Priesthood], and the first given name of the deceased
[the name of the 2nd Token of the Aaronic Priesthood].
No communication is permitted between the Veil Worker and the
Introducer or the Patron except the specified dialogue.  If the
patron makes a mistake, the Introducer immediately corrects him,
and the patron restates the correction.  If the Introducer misses
the mistake, the Veil Worker (Lord) stops, or breaks contact and
repeats the same question to indicate an error was made.

   The Veil Worker extends his right hand through the compass mark
on the veil, takes the patron by the right hand in the first
token of the Aaronic Priesthood described above.

LORD: Present him at the Veil and his request shall be granted.

   LORD: What is that?

   PATRON: The first token of the Aaronic Priesthood.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I will, through the veil.  (Gives the new name)

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes patron's hand in the Second
Token of the Aaronic Priesthood.) What is that?

   PATRON: The second token of the Aaronic Priesthood.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I will, through the veil.  (Gives the first given name)

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes patron's right hand in the
First Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood.) What is that?

   PATRON: The first token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, or sign
of the Nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I will, through the veil - The Son

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes the patron's hand in the
Patriarchal Grip What is that?

   PATRON: The second token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, The
Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I cannot.  I have not yet received it.  For this purpose I
have come to converse with the Lord through the Veil.

   LORD: You shall receive it upon the five points of fellowship,
through the veil (Patron and Veil Worker embrace in the five
points of fellowship through the veil.

   This is the name of the token - Health in the navel, marrow in
the bones, strength in the loins and in the sinews, power in the
priesthood be upon me and upon my posterity through all
generations of time and throughout all eternity.

   LORD: What is that?

   PATRON: The second token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the
Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I will, upon the five points of fellowship through the
veil - Health in the navel, marrow in the bones, strength in the
loins and in sinews, power in the priesthood be upon me and upon
my posterity through all generations of time and throughout all
eternity.

   LORD: That is correct.

   (The patron and the Veil Worker break their embrace and withdraw
their arms.  The Introducer gives three taps with the mallet on
the framework.

   LORD: What is wanted?

   INTRODUCER: (parts the veil slightly with right hand Adam,
having conversed with the Lord through the veil, desires now to
enter his presence.

   (The Veil Worker parts the Veil, takes the Patron by the right
hand with his right hand, and while guiding the Patron through
the Veil opening says:

   LORD: (Solemnly Let him enter!

   The Patron then passes by the Veil Worker, normally with a
momentary thank you - greeting, and moves on into the Celestial
Room* - which completes the Endowment Ceremony.

   The Celestial Room is an elegantly furnished sitting room where
patrons may stand or sit for a few minutes to wait for spouses,
friends or associates to come through the veil.  Conversation is
permitted only in quiet whispers.  This is the only opportunity a
Mormon ever has to ask a question about the Temple ceremonies.
It is supposed to be a place to meditate, or seek answers to
problems or inspiration.  In actual practice patrons are not
permitted to remain in the Celestial room for more than a few
minutes.  Rarely is anyone available to answer questions or
discuss a problem.  It is very business like an efficiently
operated, like a production line.

   Patrons move from the Celestial room back downstairs to the
locker room, still wearing all the Temple clothing.  There the
patron removes his temple clothing and puts on his normal
clothing and is free to leave at his leasure.  There is a
comfortable waiting room near the entrance where he may await
spouse and friends.

   TEMPLE MARRIAGE FOR TIME AND ETERNITY

   A typical Temple contains from six to ten or more Sealing Rooms
where marriages and sealings are performed for the living and the
dead.  Sealings are performed for couples already married, living
or dead, to extend their marriage to eternity.  On a typical
Saturday in Los Angeles anywhere from 60 to 90 marriages and
sealings may be performed, mostly for young couples.  The Sealing
Rooms are elegantly furnished and decorated.  The walls are lined
with chairs and a beautiful altar is in the center.  The
Officiator for this ceremony is a Temple Sealer, who is supposed
to be an especially spiritual person.  The actual ritual or
"ordinance" takes approximately two or three minutes to recite.
When marriages or sealings for the living are performed they are
normally preceded by a discourse or instruction - especially for
the wedding couple, stressing the great significance of this
ceremony to the eternal destiny and earthly life of the family.
The room is often filled with up to 40 friends and family of the
wedding couple who must also have Temple Recommends, and who have
come to be with them - all of them dressed in white Temple
attire.

   There were approximately 40 persons at the sealing of my wife and
children to myself (the order of the Priesthood is that wife and
children are sealed to the father).  After the preliminary
message, two "witnesses" are seated in a special position of
honor and the bride and groom kneel on opposite sides of the
elegantly upholstered altar and join right hands in the
Patriarchal grip previously described.

   THE MARRIAGE CEREMONY

   (The Sealer stands at the head to the altar and pronounces the
ceremony.)

   SEALER Brother _____ (acting as proxy for ____ who is dead), do
you take Sister ____ [maiden name (acting as proxy for ____ who
is dead) by the right hand and receive her unto yourself to be
your lawful and wedded wife for time and for all eternity, with a
covenant and promise that you will observe and keep all the laws,
rites and ordinances pertaining to this Holy Order of Matrimony
in the new and everlasting Covenant, and this you do in the
presence of God, angels and these witnesses of your own free
will and choice?

   Brother:Yes.

   SEALER Sister ____ [maiden name (acting as proxy for ____ who
is dead), do you take Brother _____ (acting as proxy for _____,
who is dead) by the right hand and give yourself to him to be his
lawful and wedded wife, and for him to be your lawful and wedded
husband, for time and for all eternity, with a covenant and
promise that you will observe and keep all the laws, rites and
ordinances pertaining to this Holy Order of Matrimony in the new
and everlasting Covenant: and this you do in the presence of God,
angels and these witnesses of your own free will and choice?

   SEALER By virtue of the Holy Priesthood and the authority
vested in me, I pronounce you ______, and ______, legally and
lawfully husband and wife for time and for all eternity, and I
seal upon you the blessings of the holy resurrection with power
to come forth in the morning of the first resurrection clothed in
glory, immortality and eternal lives, and seal upon you the
blessings of kingdoms, thrones, principalities, powers,
dominions, and exaltations, with all the blessings of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob, and say unto you, be fruitful nd multiply an
replentish the earth, that you may have joy an rejoicing in the
day of the Lord Jesus Christ.  All these blessings, together with
all the blessings appertaining unto new and everlasting
covenant, and I seal upon you by virtue of the Holy Priesthood,
through your faithfulness, in the name of the Father, and of the
son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen.

   (The parties then kiss each other over the altar which ends the
ceremony.  No exchange of rings is included in the ceremony, but
may be done after the ceremony.  The couple is then congratulated
by their guests and the Sealer and the party leaves to change to
street clothing.

   SEALING OF CHILDREN TO PARENTS CEREMONY

   Married couples, usually converts, who are being sealed often
have minor children.  These children are normally sealed to their
parents immediately following the Sealing ceremony of the parents
to each other.  The children may not be present for the parent's
sealing, but are brought in, dressed in white, while the parents
are still kneeling at the altar.  The parents are moved to the
ends of the rectangular altar and the children kneel along the
sides where the parents were.  The parents join hands in the
Patriarchal grip and the Children place their right hand in the
top of the parents hands, starting with the oldest child.  The
Officiator then stands behind the father and pronounces the
ceremony

   SEALER By the authority of the Holy Priesthood, I seal you
_____ (acting as proxy for and in behalf of ______), to your
father _____ ant to your mother _____, for time and all eternity,
as an heir (or heirs) (with all the children) as though you were
born in the new and everlasting covenant, in the name of the
Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen.

   Other family sealings are performed in a similar manner on
occasion.  A member of the wedding couple could be sealed to his
or her parents at this time, or have their parents sealed and act
as proxy for the appropriate parent.

   "Sealing Sessions" are conducted nearly every evening in the
Temple in which a group of four couples and an Officiator will
perform approximately 200 to 300 proxy sealings in about two
hours.  These are very business like and efficiently conducted
working sessions, which produce over stressed knees and barks
among the participants.

   CONCLUSION

   The Mormon Temple ceremonies have been presented here almost in
their entirety and very nearly "word perfect" for the instruction
and information of honest investigators looking into the deepest
teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
(Mormons).  Those readers who are offended of disturbed by this
objective and truthful presentation of this information are asked
to consider this: darkness flees from light, error flees from
truth, deceit and deception flees from honesty and integrity.
Perhaps you should re-evaluate your commitment to light, truth,
honesty and integrity as opposed to blind, mindless obedience to
the precepts of men.  The Apostle Paul told the saints in
Ephesus, "For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in
the Lord, walk as children of light ...proving what is acceptable
unto the Lord.  And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works
of darkness, but rather reprove them.  For it is a shame to even
speak of those things which are done of them in secret, but all
things that are reproved are made manifest by the light: for
whatsoever doth make manifest is light." (Ephesians 5:8,10-13)

   Brethren and Sisters, we invite you to come out of secret works
of darkness into the wonderful light of Jesus, the Light of the
World and Savior of every soul who will abandon man made
churchianity and come to Him for Salvation and Redemption.
Praise the Lord, He is faithful to His Word - to SAVE all who
will accept His matchless grace by faith in Him.

     Chuck Sackett

  For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

                      The Jesus of Christianity
                                  Vs
                        The Jesus of Mormonism

.    The Jesus WE KNOW contrasted to the "Jesus" of Mormonism.  The
one true Jesus of the BIBLE, of all eternity God the Son, who died
that we may have eternal life; who paid the price of all sins; who has
entered our lives and is walking with us in a personal relationship
day by day -- is not known in Mormonism.  The Jesus of Mormonism is an
entirely different "Jesus".  Let's examine what the leaders and
prophets - the foundation of the Latter Day Saints Church - have said:

.    "When the time came that His First-Born, the Saviour, should come
into the world and take a tabernacle, the Father Himself came and
favored the Spirit with a tabernacle instead of letting any other MAN
do it. ....  The Saviour was begotten by the Father of His spirit, by
the same being who is the Father of our spirits, and that is all the
organic difference between Jesus Christ and you and me."  BRIGHAM
YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 4:218

.    "The fleshly body of Jesus required a Mother as well as a Father.
Therefore, the Father and Mother of Jesus, according to the flesh,
must have been associated together in the capacity of Husband and
Wife; hence the Virgin Mary must have been, for the time being, the
lawful wife of God the Father."  ORSON PRATT, The Seer, pg 158

.    "Christ was begotten by an immortal Father in the same way that
mortal men are begotten by mortal fathers --- And Christ was born into
the world as the Literal Son of this Holy Being; He was born in the
same personal, real, and literal sense that any mortal son is born of
a mortal father.  There is nothing figurative about his paternity; He
was begotten, conceived and born in the normal and natural course of
events, for He is the Son of God, and that designation means what it
says."  BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, pg 547,742

.    Brigham Young, to be consistent with his "Adam-God" doctrine,
believed Adam was the literal father of Jesus Christ:
.    "When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, the Father had
begotten him in his own likeness.  He was not begotten by the Holy
Ghost.  And who is the Father?  He is the first of the human family
... Jesus, our elder brother, was begotten in the flesh by the same
character that was in the Garden of Eden, and who is our Father in
Heaven."  BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 1:50,51

.    As is evident in these statements, there is no Virgin Birth in
Mormonism.  On the other hand, the Bible clearly shows us:

. Matthew  1:18   Mary with child of the Holy Spirit
.          1:20   That which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit
.          1:23   Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son
. Luke     1:35   The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of
.                 the Most High will overshadow you

.    Further, the "Jesus" of Mormonism was married in polygamy and had
children.  This had to be so to be consistent with the doctrines of
Joseph Smith, Junior.  As Joseph reports as a "revelation" given him
by God on July 12,1843: "I am the Lord thy God .. obey the
instructions I am about to give unto you .. if ye abide not that
covenant, then ye are damned; for no one can reject this covenant and
be permitted to enter my Glory .. verily I say unto you, if  man marry
a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting
covenant .. they shall be gods .. And again, as pertaining to the law
of the priesthood if any man espouses a virgin, and desire to espouse
another, and the first give her consent, and if he espouse the second,
and they are virgins, and have vowed to no other man, then he is
justified .. and if he have ten virgins given unto him by the law, he
cannot commit adultery, for they belong to him."  JOSEPH SMITH,
Doctrine & Covenants, 132:2,3,4,19,20,61,62

.    "It will be borne in mind that once on a time, there was a
marriage in Cana of Galilee, and on a careful reading of that
transaction, it will be discovered that no less a person than Jesus
Christ was married on that occasion."  ORSON HYDE, Journal of
Discourses, 13:259
.    "How was it with Mary and Martha, and other women that followed
Him?  In old times, and it is common to this day, the women, even
Sarah, called their husbands 'LORD' .. Jesus was the bridegroom at the
marriage of Cana of Galilee .. We say it was Jesus Christ who was
married, to be brought into relation whereby he could see his seed,
before He was crucified .. I shall say here, that before the Saviour
died, he looked upon His own natural children, as we look upon ours."
ORSON HYDE, Journal of Discourses, 2:81,82
   
.    The Bible states that Jesus is God the Son -- eternally existent
with God the Father -- yet Mormon doctrine says Jesus was a spirit
offspring of the Father; that Lucifer was the second spirit offspring
(THEY WERE BROTHERS?!); followed by billions more - or each of us, for
instance.  We are "brothers" and "sisters" of Jesus Christ.  Jesus is
not the only begotten Son in Mormon Theology: "It makes me think of
that second person that came forth in the heavens when the voice went
forth: 'Who will redeem the earth, who will go forth and make the
sacrifice for the earth and all things it contains?'.  The Eldest son
said: 'Here am I'; but he did not say 'send me'.  But the second one,
which was 'Lucifer, Son of the Morning', said, 'Lord, here am I, send
me, I will redeem every son and daughter of Adam and Eve that lives on
the earth."  BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 13:282
.    "The appointment of Jesus to be Saviour of the world was
contested by one of the other sons of God.  He was called Lucifer, Son
of the Morning .... this spirit brother of Jesus desperately tried to
become the Saviour of Mankind.  MILTON R. HUNTER (First Council of 70)
The Gospel Through the Ages, pg 15 [1958]
.     "Jesus Christ is also of our species .. I have heard sectarian
priests undertake to tell the character of the Son of God, and they
make him half of one species and half of another, and I could not
avoid thinking at once of a mule."  BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of
Discourses, 4:217
.    "There is no impropriety ... in speaking of Jesus Christ as the
elder brother of the rest of human kind."  JAMES TALMAGE, ARTICLES OF
FAITH, pg 473

.    In Mormonism, Jesus was a created being: "Jesus is man's
spiritual brother.  We dwelt with Him in the spirit world as members
of that large society of our eldest brother."  MILTON R. HUNTER,
Gospel Through the Ages, pg 21
.    "The devil is a spirit son of God who was born in the morning of
pre-existence."  BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, "Devil", 1966
edition, pg 192
.    "There are three Gods - the Father, Son and Holy Ghost."  BRUCE
R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine,"God", pg 317

.    The REAL JESUS, the ONLY Son of God and God the Son, is
proclaimed throughout the BIBLE!  Look up these references and tie-ins
of Old and New testaments declaring Jesus' Divinity and NOT being
created:

 LOOK UP:    and     COMPARE WITH

 Psalm 24:10        I Corinthians 2:8
 Psalm 45:6,7       Hebrews 1:8
 Isaiah 8:13        I Peter 2:8
 Isaiah 40:3        Matthew 3:3
 Malachi 3:1        Matthew 11:10
 Psalm 102:27       Hebrews 13:8
.                   James 1:17
 Psalm 102:25       Colossians 1:16
 Psalm 102:26       Matthew 24:35
.                   2 Peter 3:7,10
   
.    JOHN 1:1-3,14  "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was
with God, and the Word was God.  The same was in the beginning with
God.  All things were made by Him; and without Him was not anything
made that was made ... And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among
us, (and we beheld His glory, the Glory as of the ONLY begotten of the
Father,) full of grace and truth."
.    COLOSSIANS 1:15  "Who is the image of the invisible God, the
firstborn of every creature" [Here 'firstborn' does not mean first
'spirit-child', rather a position of high honor - see verse 18,
Hebrews 12:23, revelation 1:5, and Psalm 89:27].  The next verses, 16
and 17, tell us, "For in Him were all things created, that are in
heaven, and that are on the earth ... All things were created by Him,
and for Him: And He is before all things, and by Him all things
consist."
.    HEBREWS 1:10  "Thou, Lord (Jesus), in the beginning hast laid the
foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of thine hands."
.    In Isaiah 44:24 God tells us that He "stretched forth the heavens
alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself."  Jesus, who IS the
TRUTH and God the Father "have no lies within them" and are INCAPABLE
OF TELLING A LIE.  Jesus is God the Son, eternally One with the Father
and the Holy Spirit, and not be confused.  God the Son is not God the
Father and God the father is not God the Holy Spirit, but each entity
is a part of the ONE TRUE AND LIVING GOD.
.    ISAIAH 9:6  "For unto us a child is born ... his name shall be
called Wonderful Counselor, The Mighty God, The everlasting Father,
The Prince of Peace."
.    MICAH 5:2  "Whose goings forth have been from of old, from
everlasting."
.    MATTHEW 28:18  "And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, 'All
power is given unto me in heaven and in earth."
.    PHILIPPIANS 2:6-10  "Who, being in the form of God, though it not
robbery to be equal with God: ... was made in the likeness of men ...
became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.  Wherefore
God also hath highly exaulted him ... That at the name of Jesus every
knee should bow ....".
.    Compare to Isaiah 45:22,23 for if Jesus is not God, then we
worship two (or more) Gods!  The Mormons, basically, do not worship
Jesus, or pray to Him, only "through" Him.
.    COLOSSIANS 2:9   "For in Him dwelleth the fullness of the Godhead
bodily"
.    HEBREWS 1:3   "... The express image of His person ...."
.    JOHN 5:23  "That all men should honor the Son, even as they honor
the Father.  He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the Father
which hath sent Him."
.    JOHN 20:28  "And Thomas answered and said unto Him, 'My Lord and
my God'"
.    Jesus used the same descriptions of himself; I AM, ALPHA and
OMEGA, FIRST and LAST; as used by God the Father:

 COMPARE: ...

 JOHN 8:58        to  EXODUS 3:14,15
 REV 22:13,16     To  REV 1:8 & 21:6
 REV 1:17         to  REVELATION 21:6
 REV 2:8 & 22:13  to  ISAIAH 44:6 & 48:12

.    Jesus is GOD the SON! Eternally God and not after, or created by,
or a spirit child of God!  Our Jesus is NOT the "Jesus" of Mormonism,
and we are empowered, if we have accepted the true Jesus into our
hearts, to give Thanks unto God for selecting us to reveal His True
Son to us.  HALLELUJAH and AMEN!!!

Computers For Christ - San Jose


                        THE NATURE OF GOD

.    There is but ONE GOD. The BIBLE states that there has been,
and presently is, and always will be only ONE GOD. History and
the BIBLE show that the Jewish people always believed in ONE GOD
of the UNIVERSE. The Jewish nation; However, was lured, time and
time again, into going after "other gods" that were worshipped by
the people surrounding Israel. That was the sin GOD hated and
punished them for practicing. (Jeremiah 2:11 11:9-13 19:13)
.    In direct contrast, MORMONISM has a basic belief in many
gods. The Father, Son and Holy Ghost (in Mormonism) are three
separate gods. There were gods before them and will be gods to
follow: "If we should take a million worlds like this and number
their particles, we should find that there are more gods than
there are particles of matter in those worlds." JOURNAL OF
DISCOURSES, Vol 2, page 345 [Feb 1855] Orson Pratt
.    "Many men say there is one God; the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Spirit are only one God. I say that is a strange God, anyhow
- Three in one and one in three. It is a curious organization ...
all are to be crammed into one God, according to sectarianism. It
would make the biggest God in all the world ... he would be a
giant or a monster." TEACHING OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page
372; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 476
.    "In the beginning, the head of the Gods called a council of
the Gods, and they came together and concocted a plan to create
the world and people it." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, JOSEPH SMITH,
Vol 6, page 5; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 308

.    Mormons will say they worship only one God; But, whether
they worship them or not, believing in the valid existence of
many gods -- of the same authority and reality of the one God --
makes you a polytheist!
.    False Prophets have always led the people of history (and
the current peoples of the earth) to go after other gods
(Deuteronomy 13:1 to 13). God's strongest wrath was then and is
now upon people who worship or believe in other gods (Jeremiah
16:10 to 13 and 22:8 & 9).
.    Mormonism teaches that "Father God" is married and has many
wives: "In the heaven where our spirits were born, there are many
Gods, each of whom has his own wife or wives, which were given to
him previous to his redemption while yet in his mortal state."
THE SEER, Orson Pratt, page 37
.    Look up John 10:34 used by Mormons to justify a belief in
"many Gods". Jesus, there, is quoting Psalm 82 in which the
judges were referred to as "gods" -- but were wicked and unjust
and "die like all men".
.    Anytime the word "gods" occur in the BIBLE it must be
verified in context as referring to the idols, satanic princes or
counterfeit gods - (Isaiah 41:23 and 24 and 45:20).

.    IN CONTRAST The BIBLE states throughout there is but ONE
GOD! Look up these verses:

. ISAIAH 43:10-11  "Before me NO god was formed, nor after"
.        44: 6-8   "I am the first and the last, beside me no
.                  other"
.        45: 5-6   "I am the Lord, and there is no other"
.        45:18-22  "HE created the heavens and earth-there is no
.                  other"
. DEUT    6:4      "Hear O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord"
.        32:39     "There is no god beside me"
. PSALM  86:10     "Thou alone art God"
. MARK   12:29     "Jesus said, the Lord our God is one; no other"
. GAL     3:20     "God is one"
. JAMES   2:19     "You believe God is one - you do well"
. EPH     4:5-6    "One God and Father of us all"
. I COR   8:4-6    "There is no god but me"

.    GOD IS INFINITE: The BIBLE states that God has always been
the same from all time in eternity past and does not change. In
direct opposition to this, the Mormon Church has the basic belief
that God was once a man, with many gods before Him and many gods
to come after Him. They further believe that God is progressing
to higher levels of power and ability: "God himself was once as
we are now, and is an exalted Man, and sits enthroned in yonder
heavens ... it is necessary that we should understand the
character and being of God, and how He came to be so; for I am
going to tell you how God came to be God. We have imagined and
supposed that God was God from all eternity. I will refute that
idea, and will take away the veil, so that you may see ... he was
once a man like us; yea, that God himself the Father of us all,
dwelt on an earth the same as Jesus Christ did. "TEACHINGS OF THE
PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 345; JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES Vol 6, page
3; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 305
.    "As man is, God once was; as God is, man may become." THE
GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES, Milton R. Hunter, pages 105 & 106
.    "Our Eternal Father has attained His position of exaltation
and Godhood by obedience to the great law of progression ... was
once a mortal man who passed through a school of earth-life
similar to that which we are now passing." THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE
AGES, Milton R. Hunter, pages 12 & 104
.    "Through modern revelations we learn that the universe is
filled with vast numbers of intelligences, and we further learn
that Elohim is God simply because all of these intelligences
honor and sustain him as such --- But God acquired the honor and
sustaining influence of 'all things'. It follows as a corrolary
that if He should ever do anything to violate the confidence of
'sense of justice' of these intelligences, they would promptly
withdraw their support, and the 'power' of God would disintegrate
--- He would cease to be God. Our Heavenly Father can do only
those things which the intelligences under Him are voluntarily
willing to support Him in accomplishing." THE FIRST 2000 YEARS,
W. Cleon Skousen *,pages 355,356 *=FREEMEN INSTITUTE PRESIDENT &
B.Y.U. Professor
    
.    Mormonism teaches that God is confined to a body of flesh
and bones. He is at a particular place at a particular time. The
Mormon "god" is a SMALL "god". You can have tremendous faith in a
god - BUT, if that god is not THE GOD, then all that tremendous
faith is meaningless. Elijah once challenged the priests of
"another god" to start a fire, and the "god" who was able to do
so would be recognized as THE GOD. The priests for this wooden
idol, with great faith and efforts prayed and prayed to their god
to bring down fire to prove his godhood. Elijah even became
somewhat sarcastic when he asked a rhetorical question of "Maybe
your god is asleep? Maybe you should cry out louder to wake him
up?". After all these efforts, nothing happened! It didn't matter
if the priest and believers of that "god" had a great faith
because the OBJECT of that faith was incapable of fulfilling the
promise of that faith. The ONE and TRUE GOD fulfills our prayers.
.    "If God possesses a form, that form is of necessity of
definite proportions, and therefore of limited extension and
space. It is impossible for Him to occupy at one time more than
one space of such limits." ARTICLES OF FAITH, James E. Talmage,
pages 42 and 43
.    "I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all
description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto
me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other -'This is
my Beloved Son. Hear Him!" PEARL OF GREAT PRICE, Joseph Smith
2:17
.    "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as
man's. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, 130, v:22
.    "God himself is increasing in knowledge, power, and dominion
and will do so, worlds without end." JOURNAL OF
DISCOURSES,Prophet Wilford Woodruff, Vol 6, Pg 120
.    "We were begotten by our Father in heaven; the person of our
Father in Heaven was begotten on a previous heavenly world by His
Father; and again, He was begotten by still a more ancient Father
...." THE SEER, Orson Pratt, Page 132
    
.    The BIBLE states throughout that GOD IS INFINITE! We ask
that you look up these proofs:
.    II CHRONICLES 6:18  "Heaven and the Heaven of Heavens cannot
.                        contain thee."
.    PSALM 41:13 (90:2)  "God is from everlasting to everlasting"
.    PSALM 102:25-27     "created heavens, always the same
.                        without end"
.    PSALM 139:4-8       "Omniscient and Omnipresent"
.    JEREMIAH 23:24      "I fill heaven and earth"
.    HOSEA 11:9          "I am God, and not man"
.    MALACHI 4:39        "I do not change"
.    NEHEMIAH 9:6        "made Heaven, Heaven of Heavens and all
.                        their host"
.    PROVERBS 15:3       "His eyes in every place"
.    ACTS 17:27          "He is not far from each of us"
.    JOHN 4:24           "God is Spirit"
.    LUKE 24:39          "A Spirit has not flesh and bones"
.    HEBREWS 4:13        "All things opened unto His eyes"
.    I JOHN 4:12         "No man has seen God at any time"
.    I TIMOTHY 6:15      "No man has seen, nor can see ..."
.    JOHN 1:18           "No man has seen God at any time"
.    EXODUS 33:20        "There shall be no man see me and live"

.    It is clear that the BIBLE refutes the Mormon church's
claims and the claims of its prophets and leaders in a most
specific manner.
.    Brigham Young, second Prophet and President of the Mormon
Church taught that ADAM was "our Father and our God...": "When
our father Adam came into the Garden of Eden, he came into it
with a celestial body, and brought Eve, one of his wives, with
him ... He is our Father and our God, and the only God with whom
we have to do ... When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus,
the Father had begotten Him in His own likeness. He was not
begotten by the Holy Ghost. And who is the Father? He is the
first of the human family ...." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 1,
page 50, April 9,1852
.    "I have learned by experience that there is but one God that
pertains to this people, and He is the God that pertains to this
earth - the first man. That first man sent His own Son to redeem
the world ..." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 4, pg 1, June 29, 1856
Prophet & President Heber C. Kimball
.    "How much unbelief exist in the minds of the Latter-Day
Saints in regard to a particular doctrine which I revealed to
them, and which God revealed to me -- namely, that Adam is our
Father and our God ... Our Father, Adam helped to make this
earth, it was created expressly for him ... He brought one of his
wives with him, and she was called Eve ... Our Father Adam is the
man who stands at the gate and holds the keys of everlasting life
and salvation to all his children.." DESERET NEWS, June 18,1873:
Discourse by Prophet and President Brigham Young

.    Today, the Mormon Church adamantly denies the "ADAM-GOD"
doctrine taught, and as seen above, and affirmed by "Prophet"
Brigham Young. There is overwhelming evidence that he did teach,
believed and strongly defended this belief. By any, reasonable,
interpretation of the BIBLE, Brigham Young must be classified as
a FALSE PROPHET (see Deuteronomy 13:1 to 10 and 18:20 to 22 -
also Jeremiah 23:16 to 17) ADAM is not OUR god and NEVER will be!
.    The BIBLE states: "... then the Lord God formed man of dust
from the earth, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of
life; and man became a living being." (Genesis 2:7)
.    GOD is ONE and ETERNALLY the same. Creator of the Heavens
and the Earth ... All powerful, all knowing, all present. Despite
the fact that HE is INFINITE, he knows every hair on our heads
and has a plan for each of our lives (John 3:16 & 10:10). It is
far better to have a small faith in THE TRUE GOD of the universe
than to have a great faith in a small, counterfeit god.
.    One should keep in mind that faith in a "counterfeit" god is
really no more than a misplaced faith in the false prophet and
the teaching of a false Prophet. Remember - a counterfeit - to be
called a counterfeit - must "resemble" the GENUINE item. If there
are many "counterfeit" gods, then there must be a REAL GOD, and
HE is found in the scriptures and in everything that surrounds
us.

Computers for Christ - San Jose


         DO THE NAG HAMMADI WRITING AND DEAD SEA SCROLLS
                        CONFIRM MORMONISM
                               or
                  IS EINAR ERICKSON CONFUSED ?

.    In recent years, Mormon lecturer, Einar C. Erickson, has
given numerous talks to Mormon church groups concerning the Dead
Sea Scrolls, Nag Hammadi writings, Mandean Ginza and related
Middle East finds. These lectures have been taped and widely
distributed for use in converting the uninformed to Mormonism. Mr
Erickson states that the writings discovered in the vicinity of
Nag Hammadi, Egypt, are one of the greatest confirmations of the
"truthfulness" of the Mormon church that anyone would find
anywhere.
.    On one of his tapes, Mr. Erickson boldly declares that:
"These documents and others leave without doubt evidence positive
even on the best rules of evidence that an attorney might be able
to assemble, that this gospel [i.e. the Mormon gospel] is true.
You get no credit for faith anymore." Mr. Erickson attempts to
convince his listeners that the writers of the Nag Hammadi were
the true Christians, (based upon his allegation of their
similarity to Mormonism) and that all others had slipped off into
apostasy.
.    However; the Nag Hammadi writings are of "Gnostic" origin
which were written during the first to fourth century A.D. The
Gnostic heretics did cherish both the Old and New testament
Scripture, but re-interpreted them in terms of a mythological
Gnostic Redeemer. Gnosticism gave rise to the writings of a
number of totally spurious apocalyptic books, false gospels and
epistles that incorporated their own mysticism.
.    Gnosticism was a movement that vigorously contended with
Orthodox Christianity for supremacy. Writings by the early Church
Fathers show how widespread and influential Gnosticism was; and
it was combatted as a lethal threat to the proclamation of the
Gospel. The bishops pointed out the great gulf between Biblical
Christianity and Gnosticism, even though the Gnostics made use of
Biblical text. It is obvious that Paul, the Apostle, knew of the
false ideas of Gnosticism, and spoke out against such doctrines
several times in the Scriptures.
.    The Gnostics believed in the supreme being as an
undescribable God. He is invisible, incomprehensible, and dwells
unbegotten in eternal peace. Some names used to describe God and
to stress His transcendence were "Father of All", "The
Unapproachable God", "The Unknowable". Such a God could not
possibly have direct contact with the material world; therefore,
He does so through intermediates, each one answerable to the
other. Each intermediate in descending order is less divine and
more earthy as the chain nears the material world.
.    Mr. Erickson spellbinds his listeners when he tells them
that the Nag Hammadi writings confirm the Mormon doctrine of the
Heavenly Mother! What he fails to tell them is that this Mother
God of the Nag Hammadi is the "Holy Spirit." Certainly this is in
direct conflict with the Mormon concept of a Mother God, because
in Mormon doctrine, the Holy Spirit is a male. The supreme being
has a female counterpart which emanates from Him. She is known as
"Mother of All" or "The Holy Spirit."
.    Other emanations that come forth from the Supreme Being in
pairs are called AEONS; the lowest Aeon being "Sophia Akhamoth",
she was so full of passion to understand or know God that she
fell and was placed outside the Pleroma, God's heavenly dwelling.
Because of her desire, she becomes fertile with a formless
monster. This monster (Yaldabaoth, Samael or SATAN) is the
Demiurge or inferior god who created this material world and
brought forth man upon it.
.    According to the Gnostic, all matter is evil; therefore,
only an inferior being could have created it. Satan is the
creator-god of this earth and of man, and is an evil god. To the
Gnostics, Satan is Jehovah of the Old Testament! After Jehovah
(Satan) creates man and breathes life into him, he creates Eve.
The demonic forces see the beauty of Eve, and proceed to rape
her. Through this act, she conceives Cain and Abel.
.    Mr. Erickson often refers to the Hypostasis of the Archons
of the Nag Hammadi and being direct parallel to the Garden of
Eden scene of the Mormon Temple Ceremony. However, he fails to
inform his listeners that the Hypostasis of the Archeons tells of
the demons raping Eve! Nor does he point out that the serpent in
the garden is really the Holy Spirit coming to give Adam and Eve
the "true knowledge." He neglects to mention to his listeners
that the "god" who comes into the garden to ask Adam and Eve what
they have done is not the "Heavenly Father" but is Satan the
arrogant Archon, the evil god. In this instance, Mr. Erickson is,
at best, mistaken about the facts -- a fault which reappears
throughout his lectures and tapes.
.    The authors of the Nag Hammadi writings taught a form of re-
incarnation, and that marriage was evil, because it is of the
earth. They believed the begetting of children was from Satan,
since it merely increases the number subjected to the evil
angels. Resurrection of the flesh is denied by these Gnostics,
since earthly flesh is in itself evil, and can have no part in
the spiritual scheme of God. All of these concepts are not
confirmations of Mormon doctrine, but are direct contradictions
of it!
.    Mr. Erickson, looking elsewhere in the Middle East for
"proof," tells his audiences that the writings of the Mandaeans
of Iraq and Iran are (also) a confirmation of Mormonism. His
"evidence" for this is that they speak of baptism for the dead,
baptism by immersion, priesthood and baptize in the name of the
Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. What he fails to mention to
them is: according to the Mandaeans, Jesus was a rebel and a
heretic who led men astray by betraying secret doctrine and
making religion easier. The Mandaean sacred book tells of how
Jesus perverted the Scriptures, and that Jesus told the Jews that
He was the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Furthermore, the
Mandaean book accuses Jesus perverting baptism by baptizing in
the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost.
.    The Mandaeans were baptized many times throughout their
lives. They baptized infants; and if an infant died before or
during this baptism, a clay or dough image was made which they
then baptized in proxy for that infant. Proxy baptism was also
done for an adult who died before getting his last minute
washings before death. In this case, an individual that looked
like the deceased was baptized in proxy for the dead person.
.    The Mandaeans also had a ceremony of "eating for the dead"
to give the deceased nourishment for his travels to the heavenly
spheres. The Mormon people do not baptize infants, do not eat for
the dead, nor do they have last minute washing rituals before
death as the Mandaeans did. The Mormon proxy baptisms have less
in common with the Mandaean baptisms than they do with Catholic
infant baptisms, last rites ritual, and prayers for the dead.
Clearly, the Mandaean concepts of Jesus and baptism are in no way
similar to Mormon doctrine.
.    Those holding the Mandaean priesthood had to have a clean
family history for a number of generations, and meet strict
physical and mental qualifications. They had to be without the
slightest physical blemish, and be of pure Mandaean blood. A man
who was circumcised, impotent, or a eunuch could not be a priest
for the body must be sound, pure, and perfect. If a man was
already a priest and he received an injury which destroyed his
manhood or robbed him of a limb, he could no longer officiate as
a priest. There are no such restrictions within the Mormon
priesthoods. The only things in common with the Mormon
priesthoods and baptism and that of the Mandaean are the very
words themselves!
.    Mr. Erickson makes false claims about the Dead Sea Scrolls
community, as well. He states that those at Qumran baptized at
the age of eight, just as the Mormons do. This is just simply NOT
the case. They trained young men for their celibate monastic
order for about ten years before they were baptized into their
ranks. This baptism never took place before the age of twenty.
Mr. Erickson states that the people of Qumran were essentially
the first "Mormons." However, the people at Qumran didn't even
believe in marriage! Rather they adopted in young men from other
Essene groups who married only to beget children. By contrast, in
Mormonism, marriage is absolutely essential to each member's
salvation in the Celestial Kingdom of God.
.    Mr. Erickson claims that the Apocryphal books should be used
as scripture. However, even the Mormon's own "latter day"
revelation disagrees with him. In the introductory heading of
Section 91 of the Doctrine and Covenants, it declares
specifically that the apocryphal books are NOT to be accepted as
scripture. Beyond that built-in contradiction, lies the fact that
one need only to read some of these apocrypha for himself to
quickly discover their singular lack of inspiration.
.    For example, two "Gospels" portray the life of the young
Jesus, allegedly covering the "silent" years skipped over in the
Bible. The book, "The First Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus"
portrays Jesus as a spoiled despot who curses another child for
bumping into him, and a schoolmaster who was going to discipline
Him for refusing to answer a question. After these two people are
killed at Jesus' command, Joseph tells Mary, "we will not allow
him to go out of the house; for every one who displeases him is
killed." In Thomas' "Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus Christ", we
see Jesus causing the withering of hands, blindness, and again,
death. This is clearly not the Jesus Christ of the Bible!
.    The conclusion is inescapable -- the claims by Mr. Erickson
(and consequently other Mormons) that the Mormon doctrine is
"exonerated" by the findings in the Middle East is totally
without foundation. Mormon doctrine is not confirmed by these
different religious sects, it is contradicted by them! It is
apparent that these claims are just another chapter in the long
history of false archeological boasts made by Mormons in the
past.

NOTE: A full and completely documented study of Mr. Erickson's
scholarship regarding the above topics has been written by Mrs.
Melaine Layton entitled: The Truth About the Dead Sea Scrolls and
the Nag Hammadi Writings in Reference to Mormonism. For further
information, please write to the office of Computers For Christ -
San Jose.
                    The Jesus of Christianity
                               Vs
                     The Jesus of Mormonism

     The Jesus WE KNOW contrasted to the "Jesus" of Mormonism. 
The one true Jesus of the BIBLE, of all eternity God the Son, who 
died that we may have eternal life; who paid the price of all 
sins; who has entered our lives and is walking with us in a 
personal relationship day by day -- is not known in Mormonism. 
The Jesus of Mormonism is an entirely different "Jesus". Let's 
examine what the leaders and prophets - the foundation of the 
Latter Day Saints Church - have said:
     
     "When the time came that His First-Born, the Saviour, should 
come into the world and take a tabernacle, the Father Himself 
came and favored the Spirit with a tabernacle instead of letting 
any other MAN do it. ....  The Saviour was begotten by the Father 
of His spirit, by the same being who is the Father of our 
spirits, and that is all the organic difference between Jesus 
Christ and you and me."  BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 
4:218

     "The fleshly body of Jesus required a Mother as well as a 
Father. Therefore, the Father and Mother of Jesus, according to 
the flesh, must have been associated together in the capacity of 
Husband and Wife; hence the Virgin Mary must have been, for the 
time being, the lawful wife of God the Father." ORSON PRATT, The 
Seer, pg 158

     "Christ was begotten by an immortal Father in the same way 
that mortal men are begotten by mortal fathers --- And Christ was 
born into the world as the Literal Son of this Holy Being; He was 
born in the same personal, real, and literal sense that any 
mortal son is born of a mortal father. There is nothing 
figurative about his paternity; He was begotten, conceived and 
born in the normal and natural course of events, for He is the 
Son of God, and that designation means what it says." BRUCE R. 
McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, pg 547,742

     Brigham Young, to be consistent with his "Adam-God" 
doctrine, believed Adam was the literal father of Jesus Christ:
     "When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, the Father 
had begotten him in his own likeness. He was not begotten by the 
Holy Ghost. And who is the Father? He is the first of the human 
family ... Jesus, our elder brother, was begotten in the flesh by 
the same character that was in the Garden of Eden, and who is our 
Father in Heaven." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 1:50,51

     As is evident in these statements, there is no Virgin Birth 
in Mormonism. On the other hand, the Bible clearly shows us:

Matthew  1:18   Mary with child of the Holy Spirit
         1:20   That which is conceived in her is of the Holy 
                Spirit
         1:23   Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son
Luke     1:35   The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the
                power of the Most High will overshadow you

     Further, the "Jesus" of Mormonism was married in polygamy 
and had children. This had to be so to be consistent with the 
doctrines of Joseph Smith, Junior. As Joseph reports as a 
"revelation" given him by God on July 12,1843: "I am the Lord thy 
God .. obey the instructions I am about to give unto you .. if ye 
abide not that covenant, then ye are damned; for no one can 
reject this covenant and be permitted to enter my Glory .. verily 
I say unto you, if  man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, 
and by the new and everlasting covenant .. they shall be gods .. 
And again, as pertaining to the law of the priesthood if any man 
espouses a virgin, and desire to espouse another, and the first 
give her consent, and if he espouse the second, and they are 
virgins, and have vowed to no other man, then he is justified .. 
and if he have ten virgins given unto him by the law, he cannot 
commit adultery, for they belong to him." JOSEPH SMITH, Doctrine 
& Covenants, 132:2,3,4,19,20,61,62

     "It will be borne in mind that once on a time, there was a 
marriage in Cana of Galilee, and on a careful reading of that 
transaction, it will be discovered that no less a person than 
Jesus Christ was married on that occasion." ORSON HYDE, Journal 
of Discourses, 13:259
     "How was it with Mary and Martha, and other women that 
followed Him? In old times, and it is common to this day, the 
women, even Sarah, called their husbands 'LORD' .. Jesus was the 
bridegroom at the marriage of Cana of Galilee .. We say it was 
Jesus Christ who was married, to be brought into relation whereby 
he could see his seed, before He was crucified .. I shall say 
here, that before the Saviour died, he looked upon His own 
natural children, as we look upon ours." ORSON HYDE, Journal of 
Discourses, 2:81,82
     
     The Bible states that Jesus is God the Son -- eternally 
existent with God the Father -- yet Mormon doctrine says Jesus 
was a spirit offspring of the Father; that Lucifer was the second 
spirit offspring (THEY WERE BROTHERS?!); followed by billions 
more - or each of us, for instance. We are "brothers" and 
"sisters" of Jesus Christ. Jesus is not the only begotten Son in 
Mormon Theology: "It makes me think of that second person that 
came forth in the heavens when the voice went forth: 'Who will 
redeem the earth, who will go forth and make the sacrifice for 
the earth and all things it contains ?'. The Eldest son said: 
'Here am I'; but he did not say 'send me'. But the second one, 
which was 'Lucifer, Son of the Morning', said, 'Lord, here am I, 
send me, I will redeem every son and daughter of Adam and Eve 
that lives on the earth." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 
13:282
     "The appointment of Jesus to be Saviour of the world was 
contested by one of the other sons of God. He was called Lucifer, 
Son of the Morning .... this spirit brother of Jesus desperately 
tried to become the Saviour of Mankind. MILTON R. HUNTER (First 
Council of 70) The Gospel Through the Ages, pg 15 [1958]
      "Jesus Christ is also of our species .. I have heard 
sectarian priest undertake to tell the character of the Son of 
God, and they make him half of one species and half of another, 
and I could not avoid thinking at once of a mule." BRIGHAM YOUNG, 
Journal of Discourses, 4:217
     "There is no impropriety ... in speaking of Jesus Christ as 
the elder brother of the rest of human kind." JAMES TALMAGE, 
ARTICLES OF FAITH, pg 473

     In Mormonism, Jesus was a created being: "Jesus is man's 
spiritual brother. We dwelt with Him in the spirit world as 
members of that large society of our eldest brother." MILTON R. 
HUNTER, Gospel Through the Ages, pg 21
     "The devil is a spirit son of God who was born in the 
morning of pre-existence." BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, 
"Devil", 1966 edition, pg 192
     "There are three Gods - the Father, Son and Holy Ghost." 
BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine,"God", pg 317

     The REAL JESUS, the ONLY Son of God and God the Son, is 
proclaimed throughout the BIBLE! Look up these references and 
tie-ins of Old and New testaments declaring Jesus' Divinity and 
NOT being created:

LOOK UP          and            COMPARE WITH

Psalm 24:10                    I Corinthians 2:8
Psalm 45:6,7                   Hebrews 1:8
Isaiah 8:13                    I Peter 2:8
Isaiah 40:3                    Matthew 3:3
Malachi 3:1                    Matthew 11:10
Psalm 102:27                   Hebrews 13:8
                               James 1:17
Psalm 102:25                   Colossians 1:16
Psalm 102:26                   Matthew 24:35 
                               2 Peter 3:7,10
     
     JOHN 1:1-3,14  "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word 
was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning 
with God. All things were made by Him; and without Him was not 
anything made that was made ... And the Word was made flesh, and 
dwelt among us, (and we beheld His glory, the Glory as of the 
ONLY begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth."
     COLOSSIANS 1:15  "Who is the image of the invisible God, the 
firstborn of every creature" [Here 'firstborn' does not mean 
first 'spirit-child', rather a position of high honor - see verse 
18, Hebrews 12:23, revelation 1:5, and Psalm 89:27]. The next 
verses, 16 and 17, tell us, "For in Him were all things created, 
that are in heaven, and that are on the earth ... All things were 
created by Him, and for Him: And He is before all things, and by 
Him all things consist."
     HEBREWS 1:10  "Thou, Lord (Jesus), in the beginning hast 
laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of 
thine hands."
     In Isaiah 44:24 God tells us that He "stretched forth the 
heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself." Jesus, 
who IS the TRUTH and God the Father "have no lies within them" 
and are INCAPABLE OF TELLING A LIE. Jesus is God the Son, 
eternally One with the Father and the Holy Spirit, and not be 
confused. God the Son is not God the Father and God the father is 
not God the Holy Spirit, but each entity is a part of the ONE 
TRUE AND LIVING GOD.
     ISAIAH 9:6  "For unto us a child is born ... his name shall 
be called Wonderful Counselor, The Mighty God, The everlasting 
Father, The Prince of Peace."
     MICAH 5:2  "Whose goings forth have been from of old, from 
everlasting."
     MATTHEW 28:18  "And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, 
'All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth."
     PHILIPPIANS 2:6-10  "Who, being in the form of God, though 
it not robbery to be equal with God: ... was made in the likeness 
of men ... became obedient unto death, even the death of the 
cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exaulted him ... That at 
the name of Jesus every knee should bow ....". 
     Compare to Isaiah 45:22,23 for if Jesus is not God, then we 
worship two (or more) Gods! The Mormons, basically, do not 
worship Jesus, or pray to Him, only "through" Him.)
     COLOSSIANS 2:9   "For in Him dwelleth the fullness of the 
Godhead bodily"
     HEBREWS 1:3   "... The express image of His person ...."
     JOHN 5:23  "That all men should honor the Son, even as they 
honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the 
Father which hath sent Him."
     JOHN 20:28  "And Thomas answered and said unto Him, 'My Lord 
and my God'"
     
     Jesus used the same descriptions of himself; I AM, ALPHA and 
OMEGA, FIRST and LAST; as used by God the Father:

JESUS                     SAYING                    GOD

JOHN        8:58           I AM         EXODUS     3:14,15
REV     22:13,16    ALPHA AND OMEGA     REV     1:8 & 21:6
REV      1:17                           REVELATION 21:6
         2:8        FIRST AND LAST      ISAIAH     44:6
        22:13                                      48:12

     Jesus is GOD the SON! Eternally God and not after, or 
created by, or a spirit child of God! Our Jesus is NOT the 
"Jesus" of Mormonism, and we are empowered, if we have accepted 
the true Jesus into our hearts, to give Thanks unto God for 
selecting us to reveal His True Son to us. HALLELUJAH and AMEN 
!!!

Computers For Christ


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

                        THE NATURE OF GOD

     There is but ONE GOD. The BIBLE states that there has been, 
and presently is, and always will be only ONE GOD. History and 
the BIBLE show that the Jewish people always believed in ONE GOD 
of the UNIVERSE. The Jewish nation; However, was lured, time and 
time again, into going after "other gods" that were worshipped by 
the people surrounding Israel. That was the sin GOD hated and 
punished them for practicing. (Jeremiah 2:11 11:9-13 19:13)
     In direct contrast, MORMONISM has a basic belief in many 
gods. The Father, Son and Holy Ghost (in Mormonism) are three 
separate gods. There were gods before them and will be gods to 
follow: "If we should take a million worlds like this and number 
their particles, we should find that there are more gods than 
there are particles of matter in those worlds." JOURNAL OF 
DISCOURSES, Vol 2, page 345 [Feb 1855] Orson Pratt
     "Many men say there is one God; the Father, the Son, and the 
Holy Spirit are only one God. I say that is a strange God, anyhow 
- Three in one and one in three. It is a curious organization ... 
all are to be crammed into one God, according to sectarianism. It 
would make the biggest God in all the world ... he would be a 
giant or a monster." TEACHING OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 
372; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 476
     "In the beginning, the head of the Gods called a council of 
the Gods, and they came together and concocted a plan to create 
the world and people it." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, JOSEPH SMITH, 
Vol 6, page 5; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 308

     Mormons will say they worship only one God; But, whether 
they worship them or not, believing in the valid existence of 
many gods -- of the same authority and reality of the one God -- 
makes you a polytheist!
     False Prophets have always led the people of history (and 
the current peoples of the earth) to go after other gods 
(Deuteronomy 13:1 to 13). God's strongest wrath was then and is 
now upon people who worship or believe in other gods (Jeremiah 
16:10 to 13 and 22:8 & 9).
     Mormonism teaches that "Father God" is married and has many 
wives: "In the heaven where our spirits were born, there are many 
Gods, each of whom has his own wife or wives, which were given to 
him previous to his redemption while yet in his mortal state." 
THE SEER, Orson Pratt, page 37
     Look up John 10:34 used by Mormons to justify a belief in 
"many Gods". Jesus, there, is quoting Psalm 82 in which the 
judges were referred to as "gods" -- but were wicked and unjust 
and "die like all men".
     Anytime the word "gods" occur in the BIBLE it must be 
verified in context as referring to the idols, satanic princes or 
counterfeit gods - (Isaiah 41:23 and 24 and 45:20).

     IN CONTRAST The BIBLE states throughout there is but ONE 
GOD! Look up these verses:

ISAIAH 43:10-11  "Before me NO god was formed, nor after"
       44: 6-8   "I am the first and the last, beside me no 
                 other"
       45: 5-6   "I am the Lord, and there is no other"
       45:18-22  "HE created the heavens and earth-there is no 
                 other"
DEUT    6:4      "Hear O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord"
       32:39     "There is no god beside me"
PSALM  86:10     "Thou alone art God"
MARK   12:29     "Jesus said, the Lord our God is one; no other"
GAL     3:20     "God is one"
JAMES   2:19     "You believe God is one - you do well"
EPH     4:5-6    "One God and Father of us all"
I COR   8:4-6    "There is no god but me"
 
     GOD IS INFINITE: The BIBLE states that God has always been 
the same from all time in eternity past and does not change. In 
direct opposition to this, the Mormon Church has the basic belief 
that God was once a man, with many gods before Him and many gods 
to come after Him. They further believe that God is progressing 
to higher levels of power and ability: "God himself was once as 
we are now, and is an exalted Man, and sits enthroned in yonder 
heavens ... it is necessary that we should understand the 
character and being of God, and how He came to be so; for I am 
going to tell you how God came to be God. We have imagined and 
supposed that God was God from all eternity. I will refute that 
idea, and will take away the veil, so that you may see ... he was 
once a man like us; yea, that God himself the Father of us all, 
dwelt on an earth the same as Jesus Christ did. "TEACHINGS OF THE 
PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 345; JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES Vol 6, page 
3; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 305
     "As man is, God once was; as God is, man may become." THE 
GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES, Milton R. Hunter, pages 105 & 106
     "Our Eternal Father has attained His position of exaltation 
and Godhood by obedience to the great law of progression ... was 
once a mortal man who passed through a school of earth-life 
similar to that which we are now passing." THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE 
AGES, Milton R. Hunter, pages 12 & 104
     "Through modern revelations we learn that the universe is 
filled with vast numbers of intelligences, and we further learn 
that Elohim is God simply because all of these intelligences 
honor and sustain him as such --- But God acquired the honor and 
sustaining influence of 'all things'. It follows as a corrolary 
that if He should ever do anything to violate the confidence of 
'sense of justice' of these intelligences, they would promptly 
withdraw their support, and the 'power' of God would disintegrate 
--- He would cease to be God. Our Heavenly Father can do only 
those things which the intelligences under Him are voluntarily 
willing to support Him in accomplishing." THE FIRST 2000 YEARS, 
W. Cleon Skousen *,pages 355,356 *=FREEMEN INSTITUTE PRESIDENT & 
B.Y.U. Professor
     
     Mormonism teaches that God is confined to a body of flesh 
and bones. He is at a particular place at a particular time. The 
Mormon "god" is a SMALL "god". You can have tremendous faith in a 
god - BUT, if that god is not THE GOD, then all that tremendous 
faith is meaningless. Elijah once challenged the priests of 
"another god" to start a fire, and the "god" who was able to do 
so would be recognized as THE GOD. The priests for this wooden 
idol, with great faith and efforts prayed and prayed to their god 
to bring down fire to prove his godhood. Elijah even became 
somewhat sarcastic when he asked a rhetorical question of "Maybe 
your god is asleep? Maybe you should cry out louder to wake him 
up?". After all these efforts, nothing happened! It didn't matter 
if the priest and believers of that "god" had a great faith 
because the OBJECT of that faith was incapable of fulfilling the 
promise of that faith. The ONE and TRUE GOD fulfills our prayers.
     "If God possesses a form, that form is of necessity of 
definite proportions, and therefore of limited extension and 
space. It is impossible for Him to occupy at one time more than 
one space of such limits." ARTICLES OF FAITH, James E. Talmage, 
pages 42 and 43
     "I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all 
description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto 
me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other -'This is 
my Beloved Son. Hear Him!" PEARL OF GREAT PRICE, Joseph Smith 
2:17
     "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as 
man's. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, 130, v:22
     "God himself is increasing in knowledge, power, and dominion 
and will do so, worlds without end." JOURNAL OF 
DISCOURSES,Prophet Wilford Woodruff, Vol 6, Pg 120
     "We were begotten by our Father in heaven; the person of our 
Father in Heaven was begotten on a previous heavenly world by His 
Father; and again, He was begotten by still a more ancient Father 
...." THE SEER, Orson Pratt, Page 132
     
     The BIBLE states throughout that GOD IS INFINITE! We ask 
that you look up these proofs:
     II CHRONICLES 6:18  "Heaven and the Heaven of Heavens cannot 
                         contain thee."
     PSALM 41:13 (90:2)  "God is from everlasting to everlasting"
     PSALM 102:25-27     "created heavens, always the same 
                         without end"
     PSALM 139:4-8       "Omniscient and Omnipresent"
     JEREMIAH 23:24      "I fill heaven and earth"
     HOSEA 11:9          "I am God, and not man"
     MALACHI 4:39        "I do not change"
     NEHEMIAH 9:6        "made Heaven, Heaven of Heavens and all 
                         their host"
     PROVERBS 15:3       "His eyes in every place"
     ACTS 17:27          "He is not far from each of us"
     JOHN 4:24           "God is Spirit"
     LUKE 24:39          "A Spirit has not flesh and bones"
     HEBREWS 4:13        "All things opened unto His eyes"
     I JOHN 4:12         "No man has seen God at any time"
     I TIMOTHY 6:15      "No man has seen, nor can see ..."
     JOHN 1:18           "No man has seen God at any time"
     EXODUS 33:20        "There shall be no man see me and live"

     It is clear that the BIBLE refutes the Mormon church's 
claims and the claims of its prophets and leaders in a most 
specific manner.
     Brigham Young, second Prophet and President of the Mormon 
Church taught that ADAM was "our Father and our God...": "When 
our father Adam came into the Garden of Eden, he came into it 
with a celestial body, and brought Eve, one of his wives, with 
him ... He is our Father and our God, and the only God with whom 
we have to do ... When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, 
the Father had begotten Him in His own likeness. He was not 
begotten by the Holy Ghost. And who is the Father? He is the 
first of the human family ...." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 1, 
page 50, April 9,1852
     "I have learned by experience that there is but one God that 
pertains to this people, and He is the God that pertains to this 
earth - the first man. That first man sent His own Son to redeem 
the world ..." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 4, pg 1, June 29, 1856 
Prophet & President Heber C. Kimball
     "How much unbelief exist in the minds of the Latter-Day 
Saints in regard to a particular doctrine which I revealed to 
them, and which God revealed to me -- namely, that Adam is our 
Father and our God ... Our Father, Adam helped to make this 
earth, it was created expressly for him ... He brought one of his 
wives with him, and she was called Eve ... Our Father Adam is the 
man who stands at the gate and holds the keys of everlasting life 
and salvation to all his children.." DESERET NEWS, June 18,1873: 
Discourse by Prophet and President Brigham Young

     Today, the Mormon Church adamantly denies the "ADAM-GOD" 
doctrine taught, and as seen above, and affirmed by "Prophet" 
Brigham Young. There is overwhelming evidence that he did teach, 
believed and strongly defended this belief. By any, reasonable, 
interpretation of the BIBLE, Brigham Young must be classified as 
a FALSE PROPHET (see Deuteronomy 13:1 to 10 and 18:20 to 22 - 
also Jeremiah 23:16 to 17) ADAM is not OUR god and NEVER will be!
     The BIBLE states: "... then the Lord God formed man of dust 
from the earth, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of 
life; and man became a living being." (Genesis 2:7)
     GOD is ONE and ETERNALLY the same. Creator of the Heavens 
and the Earth ... All powerful, all knowing, all present. Despite 
the fact that HE is INFINITE, he knows every hair on our heads 
and has a plan for each of our lives (John 3:16 & 10:10). It is 
far better to have a small faith in THE TRUE GOD of the universe 
than to have a great faith in a small, counterfeit god.
     One should keep in mind that faith in a "counterfeit" god is 
really no more than a misplaced faith in the false prophet and 
the teaching of a false Prophet. Remember - a counterfeit - to be 
called a counterfeit - must "resemble" the GENUINE item. If there 
are many "counterfeit" gods, then there must be a REAL GOD, and 
HE is found in the scriptures and in everything that surrounds 
us.

Computers for Christ



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

                      THE REAL HOLY SPIRIT

     In Mormonism the "Holy Ghost" is a personage, or a god, but 
the "Holy Spirit" is an impersonal force. The Mormons refer to 
verses that the Holy Spirit is symbolized by  oil, fire and water 
and show that these are "impersonal". The Bible refers to the 
Father and the Son as "bread of life", "living water" and other 
"impersonal" terms. Again, we must look at the context. 
     In John 16:7, our Lord is placing His emphasis on His going 
away and the Holy Spirit's being sent by the Father to replace 
our Lord himself. This change (or replacement), Jesus says, would 
be beneficial for His disciples. AN IMPERSONAL FORCE COULD HARDLY 
IMPROVE ON THE PERSONAL PRESENCE OF OUR LORD, JESUS CHRIST!
     The word in Hebrew and the word in Greek for SPIRIT and 
GHOST both mean the same, "breath or wind" and the "translators" 
of the King James Bible noted that the Greek word denoted a 
neuter gender and mistranslated to be an "IT", but they did 
utilize the word Ghost and Spirit and interchanged them on many 
occassions. 
     The words as translated are from only ONE word in Hebrew and 
ONE word in Greek - therefore there are NOT two words for  SPIRIT 
and GHOST - only ONE. Now, let's look at this ONE entity called 
the HOLY SPIRIT. In John 16:13 and 14 we see our Lord, Jesus 
telling us this about the Holy Spirit, "HE shall not speak of 
HIMSELF ... HE shall glorify me ... HE shall receive of mine 
....". NOTE that our LORD  gives PERSONALITY to the Spirit. 
Otherwise our Lord would have used the term that Mormons use 
"IT". 
     Jesus repeatedly (John  16:7-15) uses the MASCULINE PERSONAL 
pronoun "He" when referring to the Spirit. Jesus used the term 
clearly to tell us that the Spirit had personality and intimacy.
     Ananias was struck dead for lying to the HOLY SPIRIT (Acts 
5:3). You cannot lie to an impersonal force! It would be like 
walking up to a window box fan, turning it on and facing its 
"force" and then telling lie after lie to it  - IT WOULD NOT CARE 
THE SLIGHTEST, WOULD IT? Now, you look at Ananias and, if you are 
not a complete idiot, you would not repeat his behavior, now 
would you? The Holy Spirit and the Holy Ghost are not two 
different items mentioned in the Bible. There is only one entity 
referred to as both HOLY GHOST and HOLY SPIRIT.
     The Holy Spirit is a person. The Spirit may be "grieved" 
(Ephesians 4:30) and "sinned against" by UNFORGIVABLE blasphemy 
(Mark 3:29). None of these things are possible for an "impersonal 
force".

The  Holy Ghost does things which only a person COULD do.

He  SPEAKS:
     
     "The Spirit said unto Philip, 'Go near'" (Acts 8:29)

He STRIVES:

     "My Spirit shall not strive with man forever" (Genesis 6:3) 
- "The  Spirit also helpeth our infirmity ... [and] MAKETH 
INTERCESSION for us." (Romans 8:26)

He REVEALS, SEARCHES, and KNOWS:

     "But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the 
Spirit searcheth all things ... the things of God knoweth no man 
but the Spirit of God" (I Corinthians 2:10,11).

     Other verses can be shown in which the Spirit IDENTIFIES 
with believers (Acts 15:28), The Spirit is ETERNAL (Hebrews 
9:14), OMNIPRESENT (Psalm 139:7-10), DOES GOD'S WORK (Genesis 
1:2), INVOLVED IN REGENERATION (John 3:8), participates in the 
RESURRECTION (Romans 8:11).
     Paul identifies the Spirit as the speaker to Isaiah. Acts 
28:25-26 and Isaiah 6:8,9. An impersonal force does not counsel, 
speak, feel, or anything resembling personality. The HOLY SPIRIT 
is a person - one of the THREE ENTITIES of the ONE TRUE GOD.

Computers For Christ


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

                MORMONISM'S "SALVATION BY WORKS"
                               vs.
               SALVATION BY GRACE THROUGH CHRIST

     The entire BIBLE points in all directions to the cross. Upon 
it  God's only begotten Son died that we might have eternal  life 
from God. Only through Christ can this separation be bridged.
     On the other hand, MORMONISM points in all directions to the 
"Law  of Eternal Progression".  We have seen that Mormon doctrine 
states that God was once a man.  He progressed to become God. The 
same law states that man may become God!
     Let's go to the authorities of the church and hear what they 
have  said,  first  on the subject of man's  pre-existence  as  a 
spirit in a "spirit world" prior to taking a body here on earth:

                     DID WE PRE-EXIST?

BRUCE R. McCONKIE (Apostle); MORMON DOCTRINE, page 589 

     "Pre-existence is the term commonly used to describe the 
pre-mortal existence of the spirit children of God the Father ... 
All men and women are in the similitude of the universal Father 
and Mother, and we are literally the sons and daughters of Deity; 
as spirits they were the offspring of celestial parentage ... 
Unless God the father was a personal Being, He could not have 
begotten spirits in His image, and if there had been no self-
existent spirit element, there would have been no substance from 
which those spirit bodies could have been organized."

     The basis of the Mormon law of progression in Mormonism is 
that "intelligences" are eternal. On the other hand, God is not! 
He started as a spirit child in another 'spirit world' long ago; 
entered a body on another earth as a man; apparently was able to 
follow the law of progression perfectly; after death He became 
God in the 'celestial kingdom' of that other earth; brought (or 
was given) many wives; through sexual union in our spirit world 
had billions of spirit children : The first was Jesus, the second 
Lucifer, the third and on and on were to enter the earth as you 
and me.
     No organic difference in the parentage between us and Jesus 
and Lucifer! We all have the same literal "Heavenly Father". Note 
how those in Mormonism generally refer to Him as "Heavenly 
Father" -- they mean just that - LITERALLY!! Just remember that 
they could say also; "Heavenly GRANDFATHER", "Heavenly Great-
Grandfather", and so on ...!

MILTON R. HUNTER (1st Council of 70); GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; 
pages 127-129 (1958)

     "In the first stage, man was an eternally existent being 
termed an intelligence ... The next realm where man dwelt was the 
spirit world."

     According to Mormon concept eternally existing intelligences 
were clothed with spirit bodies in the mansion of their eternal 
Father... "numerous sons and daughters were begotten and born of 
heavenly parents into that eternal family in the spirit world ... 
There ... they were reared to maturity, becoming grown spirit men 
and women prior to coming upon this earth ... Following his stay 
in the spirit world, man comes to earth in a probationary state 
... receives a physical body and undergoes the experiences of 
mortality .. Eventually; however, mortal death comes upon all. 
The eternal spirit goes to the spirit world to wait resurrection 
and judgement ... there they shall be assigned to the glory that 
they have merited ... Some will receive celestial glory; others 
terrestrial, while those who are recorded in the 'Lamb's Book of 
Life' will enter celestial glory. There some of them will become 
angels and others priests and kings, or, in other words, Gods."
     On page 12, Hunter states a basic "truth" of Mormonism, that 
God is subordinate to the law of eternal progression.: "Our 
Eternal Father has attained His position of exaltation and 
Godhood by obedience to the great law of progression."

JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH;  DOCTRINES OF SALVATION; Vol 1, pg 12

     "The intelligent part of man was never created but always 
existed. That is true of each of us as well as it is of God, yet 
we are born sons and daughters of God in the spirit and are 
destined to exist forever. Those who become like God will also be 
from eternity to eternity."
     The BIBLE states explicitly that there are no intelligences 
co-eternal or co-existent with God. Anything that exists, other 
than God, is a "thing". COLOSSIANS 1:16-17 and JOHN 1:1-3 state 
that ONLY Jesus is co-eternal with God as the "WORD WAS GOD" 
(John 1:1). He is before all "things" and created all "things". 
His creation did not pre-exist Him! God knows the beginning and 
end of all things before they exist. There are several scriptures 
stating HE "knew" us before we were born. They do not imply we 
existed before we were born.
     "The burden of the word of the Lord of Israel, saith the 
Lord, which stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the 
foundation of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within 
him." (ZECHARIAH 12:1)

                 SALVATION BY GRACE VERSUS WORKS

     The BIBLE states over and over that we do not merit 
salvation (eternal life in God's presence) by our own goodness 
and system of good works from or for any organization. You need 
only to study the Old Testament and see the hopelessness of a 
system whereby man was to live within God's laws with the system 
of prophets - temples - priests and ordinances. The purpose of 
Jesus coming to earth to die for us was to make provision for our 
own inability to bridge this separation of man from God and 
brought a new covenant. If you choose Mormonism as your plan of 
salvation, you have regressed to the old covenant of the prophet, 
temple and ordinance which produce only "dead works" in an 
attempt to obtain righteousness on your own. If you trust the LDS 
church and its prophets; here is what is said:

MILTON R. HUNTER; THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; pg 115 JOSEPH F. 
SMITH; TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH; pg 348

     "Thus all men who ascend to the glorious status of Godhood 
can do so only by one method - by obedience to all the principals 
and ordinances of the Gospel of Jesus Christ (another way of 
saying "Mormonism")... Men are saved no faster than they gain 
knowledge. The Prophet Joseph described the process of going 
toward Godhood as follows: When you climb a ladder, you must 
begin at the bottom, and ascend step by step, until you arrive at 
the top; and so it is with the principles of the Gospel - you 
must begin with the first, and go on until you learn all of the 
principles of exaltation. But it will be a great while after you 
have passed through the veil before you will have learned them."

JAMES E. TALMAGE; ARTICLES OF FAITH; pg 480

     "The sectarian dogma of justification by faith alone has 
exercised an influence for evil."

II NEPHI 25:23 (BOOK OF MORMON)

     "For we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after 
all we can do."

                WHAT THE MORMONS THINK OF CHRIST

LDS CHURCH TRACT; pg 32,46,47

     "Christians speak often of the blood of Christ and its 
cleansing power. Much that is believed and taught on this 
subject, however, is utter nonsense and so palpably false that to 
believe it is to lose one's salvation. Many go so far, for 
instance, as to pretend, at least, to believe that if we confess 
Christ with our lips and avow that we accept Him as our personal 
Savior, we are thereby saved ... And no man can pick the fruit of 
eternal life off the branches, as these are tied to the vine, 
without accepting both Christ and His prophets ... If it had not 
been for Joseph Smith, the Prophet, the perfect knowledge of 
Christ would not be had in the world in this day. If it had not 
been for him and his mission there would be no legal 
administrators now on earth to administer in the ordinances of 
salvation."

BRUCE R. McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; pgs 84 & 745

     "The second birth begins when men are legally baptized in 
water by a legal administrator ... Those who receive the Gospel 
(Mormon Doctrine) and join the church of Jesus Christ of Latter 
day Saints have power given them to become sons of God."
     (Compare to John 1:12 -- "But as many as received Him, to 
them gave He power to become sons of God..")

BRUCE R. McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; pg 149

     "Those things which men are directed to do to attain peace 
in this life and gain eternal life in the world to come are 
collectively called the commandments."

BRUCE R. McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; preface to 1966 Edition; pg 
118

     "Man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge -- (See I 
Corinthians 1:17,20-23,2:1-5) -- To gain salvation after baptism 
it is necessary to keep the commandments of God and endure to the 
end ... The most important things that any member of the church 
of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints ever does in this world are: 
1. To marry the right person, in the right place, by the right 
authority (Mormon Temple marriage); and 2. to keep the covenant 
made in connection with this holy and perfect order of matrimony 
- thus assuring the obedient persons of an inheritance of 
exaltation in the celestial kingdom."

CHURCH NEWS-EDITORIAL; November 8,1975; page 16

     "There is only one way to become sanctified and perfected, 
and thus prepared to live with God. That is by obedience to His 
laws. There is no other way ... When will we learn to obey him 
with all our heart, mind and strength?
     (Compare with Luke 10:27 - "Thou shalt love the Love the 
Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with 
all thy strength, and with all thy mind....")

MILTON R. HUNTER, GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; pgs 118-120

     "If men and women obey all the other laws of the gospel 
except that of celestial marriage (Mormon Temple Marriage), they 
are appointed angels ...."

BENNET; WHY I AM A MORMON; pg 170

     "Once we have been resurrected, it will be our own efforts, 
and not Christ's sacrifice, that will be the deciding factor ... 
A man can be saved only so fast as he gains knowledge of the laws 
of God." Prophets ... temples ... Obedience to the Law ... 
Aaronic Priest .. Legalisms ... Dependent on our own efforts and 
good works ... 

     Sound familiar? Old Testament in a new wrapping? Wrapped in 
Christian terminology? Mormonism calls the unsuspecting back 
under what amounts to the old covenant. If righteousness could be 
obtained, earned or gained by our own efforts to be perfect under 
the law, there would have been no need for a "NEW" covenant. If 
all Christ's death meant was to conquer death - to pay for Adam's 
sin as Mormonism teaches - why are the following among the great 
number of God's words declaring the TRUTH of the NEW COVENANT of 
salvation through Christ, by faith, not works of the law. Look up 
these scriptures and review their full context:

               THE LAW AND WORKS DO NOT SAVE

JOHN 6:28,29,39,40 ... What must we do to be doing the works of 
God? This is the work of God that you believe in Him whom He 
sent.

ROMANS 3:21,22 ... No one is justified by the works of the law. 
Now righteousness of God is manifested apart from the Law.

ROMANS 4:13-16 ... If it is adherents of the Law that are to be 
heirs, then faith is NULL and the promise void.

ROMANS 7:4-6 ... Died to the Law through the body of Christ. 
Discharged from the law, dead to that which held us captive, so 
that we serve not under the old written code but in new life of 
the Spirit.

ROMANS 8:1-4 ... God has done what the law could not do!

ROMANS 9:30-32 ... Israel who pursued righteousness based on the 
law did not succeed. WHY? They did not pursue it through faith, 
but as if it were based on works.

ROMANS 10:1-4 ... A zeal for God - but not enlightened. Seeking 
to establish their own righteousness. Christ is the end of the 
law. Romans 14:1-23 and Colossians 3:8-23 are clear refutations 
of the point made by Joseph Smith in "Words of Wisdom" to not 
drink and eat certain things is nothing more than MAN'S 
regulation and NOT from God. Read and see what God said through 
the Apostle Paul!

GALATIANS 2:16 ... Man is not justified by works of the law but 
is through faith!

GALATIANS 2:19-21 ... Died to the law, that I might live to God. 
I do not nullify the Grace of God; for if righteousness were 
through the law, then Christ is dead in vain.

GALATIANS 3:10 ... As many as are under the works of the law are 
under the curse!

GALATIANS 3:23-28 ... Before faith came, we were under the law - 
our schoolmaster (Custodian) until Christ came. Now that faith is 
come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster.

GALATIANS 5:18 ... If led by the Spirit, you are not under the 
law.

II TIMOTHY 1:8-10 ... Who saved us, not according to our works, 
but according to His own purpose and grace.

TITUS 3:3-9 ... He saved us, not by works of righteousness which 
we have done, but according to His mercy. Being justified by 
grace.

                   HOW IS MAN (or WE ) SAVED ?

     If salvation is not by works of our own under the law and 
ordinances, HOW IS MAN SAVED? Just a few of the scriptures God 
has given us are:

JOHN 3:1-18 ... YOU MUST BE BORN AGAIN! In context Jesus, 
Himself, explains that, not only do we have a natural birth 
(Flesh) but a spiritual birth! "Whosoever believeth in Him shall 
not perish but have everlasting life (ETERNAL)!

ROMANS 5:1-11 ... Christ died for us, sinners, who are now 
justified by His blood. We are reconciled through Him.

ROMANS 5:15-17 ... The free gift of righteousness by the grace of 
God.

ROMANS 10:9-17 ... Confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and 
believe in your heart God raised Him from the dead, you will be 
saved.

GALATIANS 2:16-21 ... We are justified by faith. Our old nature 
is crucified with Christ; Christ now lives in us; we live by 
faith --- not the law!

EPHESIANS 2:8-10 ... "For by grace are ye saved through faith; 
and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: Not of works, 
lest any man should boast. For we are His workmanship, created in 
Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that 
we should walk in them."

     Works have nothing to do with our justifying eternal life. 
The Mormon will be quick to point out James 2:17 - "Even so 
faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone." AMEN! That is 
not denying salvation by faith. What it is saying is this: "You 
say you are saved? Saving faith will naturally flow into a life 
that will show evidence of it. Your 'works' will testify of your 
faith. If none, there is reason to question whether there really 
was a saving faith to start with." To quote Ed Decker in his 
tract "To Moroni with Love"; You do not bark to become a dog nor 
"baa" to become a sheep. You bark because you are a dog or "baa" 
because you are a sheep! Christians, when born-again and indwelt 
by the Holy Spirit, have a never ending desire to follow the Lord 
Jesus in their daily life behavior. "Works" is not an appropriate 
name as it suggests payment after the work has been done. Christ 
made the payment IN FULL for our sins by His blood for us; if 
only we REPENT of our sins and ACCEPT Him by faith. It is 
available only through God's grace for an eternal life.

I JOHN 1:7 ... Blood of Jesus cleanseth us from all sin.

HEBREW 9:23-28,10:10-18 ... Jesus was the sacrifice, once, to 
perfect forever those who are sanctified.

ROMANS 5:6-11 ... We are reconciled by His blood.

ISAIAH 53:6-11 & I CORINTHIANS 5:17-21 ... Our iniquity was laid 
on Jesus; to die for us; that we might be made the righteousness 
of God in Him.

I PETER 2:24 ... "Who his own self bare our sins in His own body 
on the tree, that we, being dead to sins should live unto 
righteousness: By whose stripes ye are healed."

     You will never (Well, We won't say never because God may 
have His plan for their salvation that We are not aware of at 
this moment) see a cross on a Mormon structure. They will say 
call it a "graven image"; yet "Moroni" stands on top of their 
temples. Moroni didn't die for them. Joseph Smith, Jr. didn't die 
for them. The church didn't die for them. JESUS DIED FOR THEM, if 
they would only cling to His cross and reach out to claim His 
blood for their sins. They're told they can earn their own 
righteousness based on the law of the church which is based on 
"prophets, seers and revelators" proven -TIME AND AGAIN- to be 
false. Wouldn't you rather lay your eternal life in the hands of 
the ETERNAL GOD; the SON who, personally, died for you - than, 
say, a "prophet" in Salt Lake City?
     Our prayer is that this comparison of the Bible vs: the LDS 
Mormon church will show you the LIGHT of CHRIST.

Computers For Christ


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
         DO THE NAG HAMMADI WRITING AND DEAD SEA SCROLLS 
                        CONFIRM MORMONISM
                               or
                  IS EINAR ERICKSON CONFUSED ?

     In recent years, Mormon lecturer, Einar C. Erickson, has 
given numerous talks to Mormon church groups concerning the Dead 
Sea Scrolls, Nag Hammadi writings, Mandean Ginza and related 
Middle East finds. These lectures have been taped and widely 
distributed for use in converting the uninformed to Mormonism. Mr 
Erickson states that the writings discovered in the vicinity of 
Nag Hammadi, Egypt, are one of the greatest confirmations of the 
"truthfulness" of the Mormon church that anyone would find 
anywhere. 
     On one of his tapes, Mr. Erickson boldly declares that: 
"These documents and others leave without doubt evidence positive 
even on the best rules of evidence that an attorney might be able 
to assemble, that this gospel [i.e. the Mormon gospel] is true. 
You get no credit for faith anymore." Mr. Erickson attempts to 
convince his listeners that the writers of the Nag Hammadi were 
the true Christians, (based upon his allegation of their 
similarity to Mormonism) and that all others had slipped off into 
apostasy.
     However; the Nag Hammadi writings are of "Gnostic" origin 
which were written during the first to fourth century A.D. The 
Gnostic heretics did cherish both the Old and New testament 
Scripture, but re-interpreted them in terms of a mythological 
Gnostic Redeemer. Gnosticism gave rise to the writings of a 
number of totally spurious apocalyptic books, false gospels and 
epistles that incorporated their own mysticism.
     Gnosticism was a movement that vigorously contended with 
Orthodox Christianity for supremacy. Writings by the early Church 
Fathers show how widespread and influential Gnosticism was; and 
it was combatted as a lethal threat to the proclamation of the 
Gospel. The bishops pointed out the great gulf between Biblical 
Christianity and Gnosticism, even though the Gnostics made use of 
Biblical text. It is obvious that Paul, the Apostle, knew of the 
false ideas of Gnosticism, and spoke out against such doctrines 
several times in the Scriptures.
     The Gnostics believed in the supreme being as an 
undescribable God. He is invisible, incomprehensible, and dwells 
unbegotten in eternal peace. Some names used to describe God and 
to stress His transcendence were "Father of All", "The 
Unapproachable God", "The Unknowable". Such a God could not 
possibly have direct contact with the material world; therefore, 
He does so through intermediates, each one answerable to the 
other. Each intermediate in descending order is less divine and 
more earthy as the chain nears the material world.
     Mr. Erickson spellbinds his listeners when he tells them 
that the Nag Hammadi writings confirm the Mormon doctrine of the 
Heavenly Mother! What he fails to tell them is that this Mother 
God of the Nag Hammadi is the "Holy Spirit." Certainly this is in 
direct conflict with the Mormon concept of a Mother God, because 
in Mormon doctrine, the Holy Spirit is a male. The supreme being 
has a female counterpart which emanates from Him. She is known as 
"Mother of All" or "The Holy Spirit."
     Other emanations that come forth from the Supreme Being in 
pairs are called AEONS; the lowest Aeon being "Sophia Akhamoth", 
she was so full of passion to understand or know God that she 
fell and was placed outside the Pleroma, God's heavenly dwelling. 
Because of her desire, she becomes fertile with a formless 
monster. This monster (Yaldabaoth, Samael or SATAN) is the 
Demiurge or inferior god who created this material world and 
brought forth man upon it.
     According to the Gnostic, all matter is evil; therefore, 
only an inferior being could have created it. Satan is the 
creator-god of this earth and of man, and is an evil god. To the 
Gnostics, Satan is Jehovah of the Old Testament! After Jehovah 
(Satan) creates man and breathes life into him, he creates Eve. 
The demonic forces see the beauty of Eve, and proceed to rape 
her. Through this act, she conceives Cain and Abel.
     Mr. Erickson often refers to the Hypostasis of the Archons 
of the Nag Hammadi and being direct parallel to the Garden of 
Eden scene of the Mormon Temple Ceremony. However, he fails to 
inform his listeners that the Hypostasis of the Archeons tells of 
the demons raping Eve! Nor does he point out that the serpent in 
the garden is really the Holy Spirit coming to give Adam and Eve 
the "true knowledge." He neglects to mention to his listeners 
that the "god" who comes into the garden to ask Adam and Eve what 
they have done is not the "Heavenly Father" but is Satan the 
arrogant Archon, the evil god. In this instance, Mr. Erickson is, 
at best, mistaken about the facts -- a fault which reappears 
throughout his lectures and tapes.
     The authors of the Nag Hammadi writings taught a form of re-
incarnation, and that marriage was evil, because it is of the 
earth. They believed the begetting of children was from Satan, 
since it merely increases the number subjected to the evil 
angels. Resurrection of the flesh is denied by these Gnostics, 
since earthly flesh is in itself evil, and can have no part in 
the spiritual scheme of God. All of these concepts are not 
confirmations of Mormon doctrine, but are direct contradictions 
of it!
     Mr. Erickson, looking elsewhere in the Middle East for 
"proof," tells his audiences that the writings of the Mandaeans 
of Iraq and Iran are (also) a confirmation of Mormonism. His 
"evidence" for this is that they speak of baptism for the dead, 
baptism by immersion, priesthood and baptize in the name of the 
Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. What he fails to mention to 
them is: according to the Mandaeans, Jesus was a rebel and a 
heretic who led men astray by betraying secret doctrine and 
making religion easier. The Mandaean sacred book tells of how 
Jesus perverted the Scriptures, and that Jesus told the Jews that 
He was the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Furthermore, the 
Mandaean book accuses Jesus perverting baptism by baptizing in 
the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost.
     The Mandaeans were baptized many times throughout their 
lives. They baptized infants; and if an infant died before or 
during this baptism, a clay or dough image was made which they 
then baptized in proxy for that infant. Proxy baptism was also 
done for an adult who died before getting his last minute 
washings before death. In this case, an individual that looked 
like the deceased was baptized in proxy for the dead person.
     The Mandaeans also had a ceremony of "eating for the dead" 
to give the deceased nourishment for his travels to the heavenly 
spheres. The Mormon people do not baptize infants, do not eat for 
the dead, nor do they have last minute washing rituals before 
death as the Mandaeans did. The Mormon proxy baptisms have less 
in common with the Mandaean baptisms than they do with Catholic 
infant baptisms, last rites ritual, and prayers for the dead. 
Clearly, the Mandaean concepts of Jesus and baptism are in no way 
similar to Mormon doctrine.
     Those holding the Mandaean priesthood had to have a clean 
family history for a number of generations, and meet strict 
physical and mental qualifications. They had to be without the 
slightest physical blemish, and be of pure Mandaean blood. A man 
who was circumcised, impotent, or a eunuch could not be a priest 
for the body must be sound, pure, and perfect. If a man was 
already a priest and he received an injury which destroyed his 
manhood or robbed him of a limb, he could no longer officiate as 
a priest. There are no such restrictions within the Mormon 
priesthoods. The only things in common with the Mormon 
priesthoods and baptism and that of the Mandaean are the very 
words themselves!
     Mr. Erickson makes false claims about the Dead Sea Scrolls 
community, as well. He states that those at Qumran baptized at 
the age of eight, just as the Mormons do. This is just simply NOT 
the case. They trained young men for their celibate monastic 
order for about ten years before they were baptized into their 
ranks. This baptism never took place before the age of twenty. 
Mr. Erickson states that the people of Qumran were essentially 
the first "Mormons." However, the people at Qumran didn't even 
believe in marriage! Rather they adopted in young men from other 
Essene groups who married only to beget children. By contrast, in 
Mormonism, marriage is absolutely essential to each member's 
salvation in the Celestial Kingdom of God.
     Mr. Erickson claims that the Apocryphal books should be used 
as scripture. However, even the Mormon's own "latter day" 
revelation disagrees with him. In the introductory heading of 
Section 91 of the Doctrine and Covenants, it declares 
specifically that the apocryphal books are NOT to be accepted as 
scripture. Beyond that built-in contradiction, lies the fact that 
one need only to read some of these apocrypha for himself to 
quickly discover their singular lack of inspiration.
     For example, two "Gospels" portray the life of the young 
Jesus, allegedly covering the "silent" years skipped over in the 
Bible. The book, "The First Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus" 
portrays Jesus as a spoiled despot who curses another child for 
bumping into him, and a schoolmaster who was going to discipline 
Him for refusing to answer a question. After these two people are 
killed at Jesus' command, Joseph tells Mary, "we will not allow 
him to go out of the house; for every one who displeases him is 
killed." In Thomas' "Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus Christ", we 
see Jesus causing the withering of hands, blindness, and again, 
death. This is clearly not the Jesus Christ of the Bible!
     The conclusion is inescapable -- the claims by Mr. Erickson 
(and consequently other Mormons) that the Mormon doctrine is 
"exonerated" by the findings in the Middle East is totally 
without foundation. Mormon doctrine is not confirmed by these 
different religious sects, it is contradicted by them! It is 
apparent that these claims are just another chapter in the long 
history of false archeological boasts made by Mormons in the 
past.

NOTE: A full and completely documented study of Mr. Erickson's 
scholarship regarding the above topics has been written by Mrs. 
Melaine Layton entitled: The Truth About the Dead Sea Scrolls and 
the Nag Hammadi Writings in Reference to Mormonism. For further 
information, please write to the office of Computers For Christ - 
San Jose.


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
            Do Mormons "Really" Believe in the Bible?

               Isaiah 41:21 - Set Forth your case
               I Peter 3:15 - Be prepared, always

     The credibility of a religious claim rests upon its ability 
to verify its terms. In the year of 1800, the French Institute in 
Paris issued a list of 82 "errors' that it had found in the Bible 
and felt would destroy Christianity in short order. In 1804, not 
one of the alleged errors remained!
     In the year 1901, the American Society of Archeology claimed 
that the Biblical account of a peoples called the Hittites was 
false. In 1933, archeologists found conclusive proof of the 
existence of the Hittites and other peoples that the Bible had 
claimed existed!
     The primary question for this text is: "Why are we 
discussing the matter of the Bible and its completeness? Doesn't 
the Mormon church accept the Bible as the Word of God?" To 
respond, let me quote from the sources of the Mormon church:

     8th Article of Faith - "We believe the Bible to be the word 
of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the 
Book of Mormon to be the Word of God."
     Joseph Smith, in Teaching of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 
327, stated "Ignorant translators, careless transcribers, or 
designing and corrupt priests committed many errors.' and the 
mormon apostle Mark E. Peterson states in his book, As Translated 
Correctly - page 4, "Many insertions were made, some of them 
"slanted' for selfish purposes, while at times deliberate 
falsifications and fabrications were perpetrated.'
     Orson Pratt further made a comment in his book, Divine 
Authenticity of the Book of Mormon - pages 45 & 47, thus: "If it 
be admitted that the apostles and evangelists did write the books 
of the New Testament, that does not prove of itself that they 
were divinely inspired at the time they wrote ... Add all this 
imperfection to the uncertainty of the translation, and who, IN 
HIS RIGHT MIND could for one moment suppose the Bible in its 
present form to be a perfect guide? Who knows that even one verse 
of the Bible has escaped pollution, so as to convey the same 
sense now that it did in the original?"
     The Book of Mormon, II Nephi 29:6 states "Thou fool, that 
shall say a Bible, we have got a Bible and we need no more Bible. 
Have ye obtained a Bible save it were by the Jews?" Can you note 
the FOOLS are the only ones who trust in the Bible? Read verse 
10. Here, the Book of Mormon declares the need for more 
revelation and makes way for its own existence!
     A point of interest - turn to I Nephi 13:26: "a great and 
abominable church - has taken away from the gospel of the Lamb 
many parts which are plain and precious; and also many covenants 
of the Lord have they taken away." The Book of Mormon tells us 
that this is 600 B.C.! Do you know what B.C. means - BEFORE 
CHRIST! So we are told that the gospel of the Lamb has been 
polluted six hundred years before the Lamb or His Gospel was 
recorded in the New Testament and given at the Passover!

                    IS THE BIBLE INFALLIBLE?

     The Bible was composed over a period of 1,500 years by more 
than 40 different authors from the full range of humanity: from 
military generals (Joshua) to prime ministers (Daniel) to 
cupbearers (Nehemiah) to fishermen (Peter) to tax collectors 
(Matthew) to kings (David). The books were written in many 
different places: the wilderness (Moses), prison (Paul), and 
exile (John on the Island Patmos). On three different continents 
(Africa, Asia and Europe) and in three different languages 
(Hebrew, Aramaic and Greek).
     The content, yet, remains constant in its unfolding of the 
plan of salvation through Christ Jesus. The Old Testament reveals 
itself to be the story of the preparation for the arrival of the 
Messiah or Christ. The Gospels of the New Testament are the 
manifestation of the Christ in the person of Jesus of Nazareth. 
Acts is the propagation of the message. The Epistles give the 
explanation and the Revelation of John provides the consummation 
of the Kingdom of God in Christ Jesus or Lord! The entire Bible 
is about Jesus (Luke 24:27 - 44 and John 5:39,46,47). I challenge 
any Mormon to take any ten people, and you can even get them from 
the same heritage - education - language and culture and ask them 
separately to give you their opinion of the meaning of life - you 
will get opinions of such variety, yet the Bible consists of over 
40 authors of more than one generation with very little 
similarity and is in total unity! Complete harmony!
 
     In discussion of the matter of infallibility of the Bible we 
need, first to look at the process that we use to arrive at this 
conclusion:
 PREMISE # 1 - The Bible is basically a reliable and trustworthy 
document.

PREMISE # 2 - On the basis of this reliable document, we have 
sufficient evidence to believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of 
God.

PREMISE # 3 - Jesus Christ, being the Son of God, is an 
infallible authority. (Luke 24:27,44; John 5:39; Hebrews 10:7)

PREMISE # 4 - Jesus Christ teaches that the Bible is MORE than 
generally trustworthy. He teaches that it is the very Word of 
God.

PREMISE # 5 - The WORD, in that it comes from God, is utterly 
trustworthy because GOD is utterly trustworthy!

PREMISE # 6 - On the basis of the infallible authority of Jesus 
Christ, the Bible is infallible.

     II Timothy 2:13 declares that God "cannot deny Himself" and 
Galatians 1:8,9 tells us that we should be wary of any teaching 
of any other Gospel than that which Paul preached, which by the 
declaration of Paul in Romans 15:19 states that "I have fully 
preached the Gospel of Jesus Christ."
     The Mormon church is unable to provide any proof that Paul 
taught such doctrines as celestial marriage, no hell, wearing of 
sacred underwear, or godhood to be obtained. It is proper to 
state that if Paul never taught such doctrines, then Galatians 
1:8-9 CONDEMNS them! The claim of the LDS that more scripture is 
necessary is groundless.
     In II Peter 1:3, we are told that "His divine power hath 
given unto us ALL things that pertain to life and godliness." 
Paul further explained in Colossians 2:10 that "Ye are COMPLETE 
in Him." If just these two statements are true, what possible use 
could additional scripture be? Granted that nowhere in the Bible 
does it state that "This is the end of Scripture"; However, with 
the above statements, anything else could ONLY be redundant. It 
is obvious from the text of the New Testament that the writers 
were "eyewitnesses" of the ministry and presence of Jesus Christ. 
(II Peter 1:15-18 and I John 1:1-5)
     Acts 22:14-15 and I Corinthians 11:23 show that the Apostle 
Paul was specially chosen by the Lord as a witness while the 
other Apostles were alive. Paul's testimony was identical to that 
of the other Apostles - what He had seen, heard and taught of the 
Lord Jesus was identical to all previous teachings and in accord 
with the Old Testament teachings. Much more could have been 
written (John 20:30 and 21:25); However, there was no need as 
there already existed "all things that pertain to life and 
godliness." (II Peter 1:3 and John 20:31)
     How many of us, Mormon or Christian have read and digested 
all of the meat of the Holy Bible - completely? Can there really 
be a need for something more when the original item is still 
unplumbed for the depths it contains? 
     We have the following possibilities: the Bible was written 
by either (1) Good Men or Angels, (2) Evil Men or Demons, (3) 
God.
     Good Men or Angels could not have written it as they could 
not write "Thus saith the Lord" when it was a lie or an invention 
of their own minds.
     Evil men or demons could not have written the Bible as they 
would not have written a book that commands all duty, forbids all 
sin, and condemns all evil to Hell!
     We thus have GOD as the only source of the BIble.

     In the ancient Israel, a class of servants in the Temple 
were called Scribes. This was a lifelong calling and one of great 
importance to the continuance of the Law and Prophets of Israel. 
I will demonstrate the LEGAL method of making a copy of a 
document according to the laws of Israel at this time and 
according to the great traditions of the Talmud. The possibility 
for incorrect copy is almost non-existent. Combine this with the 
facts as proven by archeology. Prior to the Dead Sea Scroll copy 
of the Book of Isaiah, the best copy of that Book was over 1000 
years newer! In comparing the two copies that covered this gap of 
a thousand years, there was found only ONE CHARACTER changed, and 
that was an article that "possibly" could have lost the accent 
mark of the character to make it 100% identical to the dead sea 
scroll version! Imagine - 1000 years of copies and NO CHANGE in 
the versions! Now the basis to make copies of the New Testament 
were as strict. We find many incidences of the same phenomena of 
clarity and correctness. Out of all the many thousands of pieces 
and text, not ONE DOCTRINE has been added to or changed or 
modified in ANY MANNER!


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
Many San Diegans are aware of the new Mormon Temple which is being
constructed at I-5 and Nobel Drive. The building of this temple has
increased the Mormons' visibility in San Diego County, and soon
Mormon missionaries may come knocking at your door, eager and
willing to share their gospel.

They usually carry two books, the Bible and the Book of Mormon. If
you are not a Christian, either book may be used to draw you into a
discussion.

However, if you are a Christian, Mormons usually start out with the
Bible - using terminology designed to convince you of their claim
that Mormons are Christians too, and that "we basically believe the
same things". Nothing could be further from the truth, for if you
were to engage in a discussion, you would soon find out that
Mormons do not believe the Bible as you know it. Instead, they will
tell you they "believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as
it is translated correctly' (Article Eight in "Articles of Faith").
Interestingly enough, this Article was changed from "We believe the
word of God recorded in the Bible...." to its current version after
Joseph Smith started having "revelations" that did not correspond
with the Bible.

In fact, Mormons consider the Bible to be incorrect every time the
teachings of their church contradict a certain passage.

Like all cults, they try to validate their Scriptures by attacking
or re-interpreting the Bible. They do so by saying anything from,
'Here's another Testament of Jesus', to 'The Bible as we know it
has been changed, corrupted and edited beyond recognition', to 'It
was never meant to be interpreted like this...'.

What is interesting, of course, is that cults still use the Bible
to try and proof their points. However, hand a Mormon your Bible
and ask him to show you some examples of words, verses or passages
that have been translated incorrectly, and they are at a loss. Ask
Mormons when all the cutting and editing they speak of took place,
and they will give you explanations that are historically
incorrect. But not only does history prove the Mormons' claims to
be false and misleading, but so do thousands of archeological
findings, such as the Dead Sea Scrolls. In addition, there are
over 50,000 manuscripts and portions of manuscripts that attest to
the reliability of the Bible.

In my discussion with J.F. (Text file available, see notes), a
Mormon from San Diego, who claims to have a position of leadership
in the Mormon church, he used many verses and passages from the
Bible to support the points he was trying to make. Knowing that
Mormons claim much of the Bible has been corrupted, I therefore
asked him if I could assume that the verses and passages he cited
were translated correctly. After all, how could he expect to
support his points with Scriptures that he considers to be
corrupted? Not surprisingly, he did not give a conclusive answer,
because a "yes" or "no" would have meant admitting that the Bible
and the Book of Mormon contradict each other.

At the same time, Mormons try to minimalize the more than 4000
changes made in the Book of Mormon, many as recent as 1981.  These
changes were made, even though in Volume 1 of the "Documentary
History of the Church", an angel appears and proclaims, "These
plates have been revealed by the power of God.  The translation of
them which you have seen is correct." Mormon apostle Bruce McConkie
also said, "The book is true and was translated correctly". If
these statements are true, why were the corrections necessary?

In fairness, many of the changes include those made to punctuation
and spelling, but the Mormons claim that this is all that was
changed. Not so. For example, the orginal Book of Mormon said that
Jesus is the Grandson of God. This has been changed. In the
original edition we also see that "...the Lamb of God is the
Eternal Father", while current editions read, "...that the Lamb of
God is the Son of the Eternal Father."

The Book of Mormon used to teach the when a person of a dark skin
accepts the Mormon gospel, his skin would turn white. In 1981 the
word "white" was changed to "pure".

Joseph Smith claimed that "the Book of Mormon was the most correct
book on earth", and Alma 41:8 states that "the degrees of God are
unalterable". How, then, can Mormons justify all the changes in
their church's doctrine?  (polygamy, the Black Revelation of 1978,
changes in the temple oaths, etc.).

In a 1978 edition of the Book of Mormon we find that an entire
phrase ("or out of the waters of baptism") has been added to
1 Nephi 20.

Mormon apologists will tell you that the addition was suggested by
Parley Pratt, and approved by Joseph Smith. Dr. Hugh Nibley says
that even though this phrase is not found in the original 1830
edition, "it stands in all the early editions after the first."
This, of course, is hard to believe, for as late 1908, the phrase
was still not there.

The Mormon leader with whom I have had a discussion on a Christian
BBS in San Diego claimed that the printer must have made a mistake.
This is rather unfair to the printer, seeing that the phrase can
not be found in the original handwritten account either.

Joseph Fielding Smith, the tenth president of the Mormon Church,
said this about Joseph Smith: "Mormonism, as it is called, must
stand or fall on the story of Joseph Smith. He was either a prophet
of God, divinely called, properly appointed and commissioned, or he
was one of the biggest frauds this world has ever seen. There is no
middle ground." (Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. 1).

In the "History of the Church", Vol. 4, and in "Teachings of the
Prophet Joseph Smith", we are told that Joseph Smith was the
mouthpiece of God and at the same time that the Book of Mormon is
the written word of God. Joseph Smith himself said, "I told the
brethren that The Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book
on earth...". Thus, with Smith being God's mouthpiece, and the Book
of Mormon being God's written word, statements from both should for
all practical purposes be in perfect harmony. This, however, is not
the case. Here are just a few examples of direct contradications
between the teachings of Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon:


JOSEPH SMITH                      BOOK OF MORMON
============                      ==============

1. taught there are three Gods     - claims there is only one God.
   that make up the godhead.

2. said God has a body of flesh    - says God is a Spirit.
   and bones.

3. claimed that David and Solomon  - calls polygamy an abomination.
   were justified in having many
   wives.

4. says he saw both God the Father - says that Jesus Christ is God
   and Jesus standing above him in   come in the flesh.
   the air.

5. said that God does not dwell in - says he does.
   the heart of man.

6. taught that God was not God     - claims he was and will always
   from all eternity.                be God.


In 1980, then Mormon Apostle Ezra Taft Benson, in a speech titled,
"The Fourteen Fundamentals in Following the Prophet", said, "The
prophet is the only man who speaks for the Lord in everything."
During the same speech, reported in the Ogden Standard Examiner of
Febr. 26, 1980, Benson also said, "The Prophet and the Presidency,
the living prophet and the first presidency, accept them and be
blessed, reject them and suffer." In his speech, given at Brigham
Young University, Benson claimed that a church president "must be
obeyed, even when he contradicts scripture or statements of past
prophets". This while he also stated that "Nothing a Mormon
president says can be incorrect."

Mormon leaders have to make such illogical statements, because we
now have the following situation:

1. The Book of Mormon contradicts the Bible, while both are claimed
   to be the word of God.

2. Joseph Smith, who claimed that the Book of Mormon was the most
   correct book on earth, contradicts both the Bible and the Book
   of Mormon.

3. Thus, Joseph Smith, who Mormons say was the mouthpiece of God,
   contradicts God.

As if this was not enough, the Book of Mormon and the "Doctrine and
Covenants", both of which Mormons claim to be sacred and without
error, also contradict each other. For example, in the Book of
Mormon, God calls David and Solomon's act of polygamy "abominable":
"Behold, David and Solomon truly had many wives and concubines,
which thing is abominable before me, saith the Lord." (Jacob 2:24).
But in Doctrine and Covenants, section 132:1, we read, "Verily,
thus saith the Lord unto my servant Joseph, that inasmuch as you
have inquired of my hand to know and understand wherein I, the
Lord, justified my servants Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, as also
Moses, David and Solomon, my servants, as touching the principle
and doctrine of their having many wives and concubines...".

What do Mormons think about such glaring contradictions? How do
Mormons react to being told that church presidents must be obeyed,
even when they contradict scriptures or statements of past
prophets? Who knows - Mormons are taught not to question their
leaders:

In 1945 Mormons were told that Lucifer, "...wins a great victory
when he can get members of the Church to speak against their
leaders and 'do their own thinking'...When our leaders speak, the
thinking has been done, when they propose a plan - it is God's
plan. When they point the way, there is no other which is safe.
When they give direction, it should mark the end of controversy."
(Improvement Era, June 1945).

Mormon doctrine tells us the reasons Lucifer was not chosen to be
the savior of mankind was because he wanted to force people into
believing.. His plan was to take away their freedom to choose for
themselves. If - as they say - Mormon leaders truly want their
people to practice their "free agency", why do they threaten
members with "spiritual peril" for bringing out points which show
Joseph Smith and his successors in a bad light?

While Mormons will not speak out against their leaders, God will:
In Jeremiah 23:32 (Bible), we read, "'Indeed, I am against those
who prophesy false dreams,"' declares the Lord. 'They tell them and
lead my people astray with their reckless lies, yet I did not send
them or appoint them. They do not benefit these people in the
least,' declares the Lord."

Even stronger is the Lord's statement in the Biblical book of
Deuteronomy, chapter 18:20-22. "..a prophet who presumes to speak
in my name anything I have not commanded him to say, or a prophet
who speaks in the name of other gods, must be put to death. You may
say to yourselves, 'How can we know when a message has not been
spoken by the Lord?' If what a prophet proclaims in the name of the
Lord does not take place or come true, that is a message the Lord
has not spoken. That prophet has spoken presumptuously. Do not be
afraid of him."

In 1835 Joseph Smith claimed that the Lord would come again in just
56 years, which would have been on or before 1891. This was a false
prophecy.

Section 84:1-5 of Doctrine and Covenants records a prophecy given
by Smith on September 22 and 23, 1832, concerning the building of a
temple in Independence, Missouri. He stated, this "temple shall be
reared in this generation. For verily this generation shall not
pass away until a house shall be built unto the Lord, and a cloud
shall rest upon it...". To this day no temple stand on the lot
Smith dedicated, and even if construction started tomorrow there
would be no way this prophecy could be fulfilled as Smith claimed.


In this article we have merely scratched the surface of these
issues. But whether or not you are a Christian, this information
has made you aware of the Mormons' deceptive teachings.

If you are a Mormon, we invite you to check the information in this
article, and to check the sources for context accuracy. The writer 
believes that the vast majority of Mormons are very sincere in 
their beliefs, but he also believes that Mormons are sincerely 
wrong, and that the facts speak for themselves.

Much of the information in this article was obtained from the
Mormonism Research Ministry, a non-profit organization.

Feel free to contact them for information about sources, as well as
"Mormonism Researched", a free newsletter:

Mormonism Research Ministry,
P.O. Box 20705,
El Cajon, CA 92021-0955
Phone: (619) 447-3873


For more text-files on Mormonism, including a discussion between
the author and a Mormon leader, you may contact Abba II, a
Christian BBS in San Diego, California: (619) 487-7746.

                   TEN REASONS WHY I CANNOT BE A MORMON 
                           by Rev. John Hornok 

1.  MORMONISM DOES NOT TEACH THAT THE BIBLE IS THE INFALLIBLE WORK OF 
GOD.  "We believe the Bible to the the Word of God as far as it is 
translated correctly; we also believe the book of Mormon to be the 
word of God"  (Articles of Faith, No. 8). 

    As Christians we believe the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New 
Testaments to the the verbally inspired Word of God, the final 
authority for faith and life, inerrant in the original writings, 
infallible and God-breathed (2 Tim. 3:16-17; 2 Pet. 1:20-21; Matt 
5:18). 

2.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT GOD IS AN EXALTED MAN AND HAS A PHYSICAL 
BODY.  "God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man" 
(Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pg. 345).  "The Father has a 
body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's..." (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 
131:22) 

    The Bible says, "God is not a man..." (Num. 23:19).  "God is a 
Spirit; and they that worship Him must worship Him in spirit and in 
truth" (John 4:24).  "A spirit hath not flesh and bones..." (Lk. 
24:39). 

3.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT CHRIST AND THE DEVIL ARE BROTHERS. "...that 
Lucifer, the son of morning, is our elder brother and the brother of 
Jesus Christ"  (Mormon Doctrine by Bruce McConkie, pp. 163-4). 

    The Bible says that the devil is a created being, created by God. 
"thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created, 
till iniquity was found in thee"  (Ezekiel 28:15).  "For by Him 
(Christ) were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in 
earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, of dominions, 
or principalities, or powers; all things were created by Him and for 
Him..."  (Col. 1:15-17). 

4.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT JESUS WAS MARRIED AND THE HE IS POLYGAMOUS. 
"We say it was Jesus Christ who was married at Cana of Galilee" 
(Journal of Discourses, Vol 2, p. 80).  Mormonism teaches that Jesus 
was the natural child of Adam and Mary.  "When the Virgin Mary 
conceived the Child Jesus....He was not begotten by the Holy Ghost. 
And who is his Father?  He is the first of the human family" (Brigham 
Young, Journal of Discourses, pp. 50-51). 

    The Bible says, "In the beginning was the Word (Christ), and the 
Word was with God, and the Word was God;...The Word was made flesh and 
dwelt among us..."  (John 1:1, 14).  "Then Mary said unto the angel, 
How shall this be, seeing that I know not a man?  And the angel 
answered... The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee..."(Lk. 1:34-35). 

5.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT THE TRUE CHURCH CEASED TO EXIST UNTIL IT 
WAS RESTORED TO JOSEPH SMITH.  The church (LDS) was restored April 6, 
1830 by Joseph Smith (Doc. & Cov., 20:1). 

    Jesus Christ said, "I will build my church and the gates of hell 
shall not prevail against it" (Matt. 16:18).  "for other foundation 
can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ" (1 Cor. 
3:11).  "...And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and 
prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone" (Eph. 
2:20). 

6.  MORMONISM TEACHES ANOTHER (PERVERTED) GOSPEL THAN THAT OF THE 
BIBLE.  The gospel to Mormonism is:  "Faith, Repentance, Baptism, 
Receiving the Holy Spirit by laying on of hands, Morality, Loyalty, 
Tithing, Word of Wisdom, Duty Celestial Marriage (for eternity)" (LDS 
chart of FREE AGENCY and Articles of Faith, No. 4). 

    The Bible says, "Moreover brethren, I declare unto you the gospel 
that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to 
the scriptures"  (1 Cor. 15:1, 3-4).  "if any man preach any other 
gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed" (Gal. 
1:9). 

7.  MORMONISM TEACHES SALVATION FOR THE THE DEAD BY PROXY WATER 
BAPTISM.  This doctrine is based on one misunderstood Scripture: "Else 
what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise 
not at all?  Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (1 Cor. 15:29). 

    Paul did not practice baptism for the dead.  He excluded himself 
by using the pronoun "they" rather than "we" or "ye".  He is asking a 
question rather than making a statement.  "It is appointed unto man 
once to die, but after this the judgment" (Heb. 9:27). 

8.  MORMONISM TEACHES GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH FOR THE DEAD.  "Let us, 
therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer 
unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his 
holy temple, when it is finished, a book containing the records of our 
dead, which shall be worth of all acceptation" (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 
128:24). 

    The Bible says, "Neither give heed to fables and endless 
genealogies" (1 Tim. 1:4).  "but avoid foolish question and 
genealogies..." (Titus 3:9). 

9.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT THERE ARE MODERN DAY PROPHETS AND MODERN 
DAY REVELATIONS FROM GOD.  Mormonism claims that Joseph Smith received 
the Aaronic Priesthood from John the Baptist.  The Melchizedek 
Priesthood and Apostleship was restored by Peter, James and John 
shortly afterwards in 1829 (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 13). 

    The Bible says, "God...hath in these last days spoken unto us by 
his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he 
made the worlds" (Heb. 1:1-2).  The test of a prophet is given in 
Deut. 18:20-22. 

10. MORMONISM TEACHES THAT SALVATION DEPENDS UPON GOOD WORKS AND 
ACCEPTANCE OF JOSEPH SMITH.  "No man who rejects the testimony of 
Joseph Smith can enter the kingdom of God" (Doctrines of Salvation, 
vol. 1 pg. 190).  "Men have work to do it they would obtain salvation" 
(Doctrines of Salvation. vol. 3, pg 91). 

    The Bible teaches that salvation is provided by Jesus Christ 
alone, "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, 
whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:10-12).  "For by grace are ye saved 
through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God.  Not 
of works, lest any man should boast" (Eph. 2:8-9). 




X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

                 Divine Truths in the Book of Mormon 

    Anyone visited by a Mormon Missionary has heard the Elder's 
testimony concerning the Book of Mormon:  That he knows this book is 
the Word of God and that the founder of the Mormon Church, Joseph 
Smith, Jr., translated it by the gift and power of God.  Further, the 
prospect is encouraged sincerely to study the Book of Mormon and "The 
divine truths it contains." 
    The Book of Mormon indeed does contain a number of "divine truths", 
first set forth in the Bible, the most important of which are: 

1. GOD IS SPIRIT 

    Alma 18:28 (p. 242) - "Believest, thou that this Great Spirit, who 
is God, created all things". 

2. TRINITARIAN VIEW OF GOD 

     3 Nephi 11:27 (p. 422) - "Verily I say unto you, that the Father 
and the Son and the Holy Ghost are one."  In addition, three close 
associates of Joseph Smith who gave testimony of the authenticity of 
the Book of Mormon, close with words: "And the honor be to the Father, 
and to the Son and to the Holy Ghost, WHICH IS ONE GOD. Amen." 
(emphasis added)  This endorsement is found in the front of every Book 
of Mormon and further documents the Book of Mormon's acknowledgement 
of the triune nature of God. 

3. GOD IS UNCHANGEABLE 

    Moroni 8:18 (p. 517) - "For I know that God is not a partial God, 
neither a changeable being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity 
to all eternity." 

4. NO SALVATION AFTER DEATH 

    Mosiah 3:25 (p. 141) - "And if they be evil they are consigned to 
an awful view of their own guilt and abominations, which doth cause 
them to shrink from the presence of the Lord into a state of misery 
and endless torment, from whence they can no more return; therefore 
they have drunk damnation to their own souls." 

5. ONLY TWO DESTINATIONS AFTER DEATH 

    Mosiah 16:11 (p. 166) - "If they be good, to the resurrection of 
endless life and happiness; and if they be evil, to the resurrection 
of endless damnation." 

6. SALVATION BY CHRIST"S WORK - NOT MAN'S 

    Helaman 5:9 (p. 369) - "...remember that there is no other way nor 
means whereby men can be saved, only through the atoning blood of 
Jesus Christ, who shall come, yea, remember that he cometh to redeem 
the world." 


    The Book of Mormon also emphasizes the need for spiritual rebirth.  
For example Alma 5:14 states "And now behold, I ask of you, my 
brethren of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God?  Have ye 
received his image in your countenances?  Have ye experienced this 
mighty change in your hearts?" 
    Much of the major theology set forth in the Book of Mormon is 
indeed in harmony with orthodox Christianity.  However, many who are 
visited by the LDS Missionaries are unaware that the present theology 
of the Mormon Church is very different from their own Book of Mormon. 
Further, not only are today's major doctrines different, they are in 
total opposition with this work of Joseph Smith, Jr., for which he 
claimed divine inspiration. 

    Mormon theology is not contained in, but rather contradicted by 
the Book of Mormon.  The members of the Mormon Church now turn to 
newer publications and revelations for their beliefs.  A brief 
examination of some of these will document the contradictions. 

1. Mormonism today teaches "The Father has a body of flesh and bones 
as tangible as man's" (Doctrine & Covenants 130:22). 

2. Joseph Smith, later in his life, flatly denied the Trinity: "Many 
men say there is one God, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost are 
one God!  I saw that is a strange God anyhow - three in one, and one 
in three!"  He further concludes that the Father, Son and the Holy 
Ghost are not one God, but rather three Gods (History of the Church 
6:474, 476). 

3. The LDS Church no longer adheres to the unchangeable nature of God, 
but rather states:  "God himself was once as we are now and is an 
exalted man... We have imagined and supposed that God was God from all 
eternity.  I will refute that idea and take away the veil, so that you 
may see".  (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345). 

4. Bruce R. McConkie announces on page 73 of his work, 'Mormon 
Doctrine':  "The Lord has ordained baptism for the dead as the means 
whereby all his worthy children of all ages can become heirs of 
salvation in his kingdom." 

5. Mormonism today informs its members that all mankind will occupy 
one of three heavenly kingdoms.  The highest is the Celestial Kingdom 
(which itself contains various levels).  This kingdom is reserved for 
all faithful Mormons and could lead to Godhood for the male members 
there.  The middle Kingdom, the Terrestrial Kingdom, is for those who 
did not accept the gospel according to Mormonism, but who lived an 
honorable life.  The lowest or Telestial Kingdom still contains 
murderers, adulterers, liars and thieves.  (Doctrine & Covenants 
section 76).  Hell in Mormonism is usually thought to be only a 
temporary state of suffering, which can be terminated through self-
atonement.  In summary, all will be resurrected and receive some 
degree of glory, according to Mormonism. 

6. Mormons believe not in the infinite atonement of Christ, but rather 
that "redemption from personal sins can only be obtained through 
obedience to the requirements of the Gospel, AND A LIFE OF GOOD 
WORKS."  (emphasis added) (Talmage, Articles of Faith pgs. 478-479) 

    These changes and contradictions contained within these easily 
available LDS Scriptures leave no doubt as to the human, man made 
origin of Mormonism. 
    While Mormons regard the Bible as the Word of God, the Bible is 
actually placed lower and superseded by their other Scriptures, which 
in addition to the Book of Mormon include the Doctrine & Covenants and 
the Pearl of Great Price.  This devaluation of the Bible is found 
within the LDS Articles of Faith, in the Pearl of Great Price, where 
it is stated that Mormons "believe the Bible in so far as it is 
correctly translated." 
    God's word, the Bible, has definitely stood the test of time, 
whereas in its short existence the Book of Mormon has not.  The Bible, 
has been used by and confirmed by archeology, - the Book of Mormon has 
not.  The Bible, has through recent ancient manuscript discoveries, 
been demonstrated to have been transmitted and translated accurately, 
where the Book of Mormon contains nearly 4000 textual changes from the 
first edition in 1830 to the present editions used today, and has 
received further changes in the new 1981 "Triple Combination" edition. 
    The presence of "Divine Truths" within the Book of Mormon is 
merely a result of Joseph Smith, Jr. incorporating much of the Bible 
into his work.  (see 'The use of the Bible in the Book of Mormon by H. 
Michael Marquardt).  Thus, the Book of Mormon must be regarded as 
fiction, not as inspired Scripture. 
    Changes within Mormonism and the Book of Mormon make it clear that 
Mormonism is not from God.  God's word does not change.  Jesus Christ 
is the same yesterday, today and forever (Hebrews 13:8) and His Word 
shall never pass away (Psalm 119:89; Matthew 24:35).  The Jesus Christ 
who shed his blood on Calvary's cross to save you is not the Jesus of 
present-day Mormonism.  Jesus invites all people to experience a 
spiritual rebirth and to receive the free gift of eternal life by 
trusting in him alone for salvation. 

    Write to us and let us share with you more information concerning 
our Risen Saviour Jesus Christ and how you can receive Him. 


 PERSONAL FREEDOM OUTREACH 

 Route 3 Weir Lake Rd., Kunkletown, PA. 18058  (215) 381-3661 
 P.O. Box 26062, Saint Louis, MO.  63136  (314) 388-2648 
 P.O. Box 30073, Phoenix, AZ.  85046  (602)867-0538 
 P.O. Box 15081, Santa Ana, CA.  92705  (714) 832-9385 



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

Information from the 

                NATIONAL MUSEUM OF OF NATURAL HISTORY 
               Smithsonian Institution  Washington D.C. 

    Your recent inquiry concerning the Book of Mormon has been 
received in the Smithsonian's Department of Anthropology. 

    The book of Mormon is a religious document and not a scientific 
guide.  The Smithsonian Institution does not use it in archeological 
research.  Because the Smithsonian Institution receives many inquiries 
regarding the book of Mormon, we have prepared a "Statement Regarding 
the Book of Mormon," a copy of which is enclosed for your information. 
This statement includes answers to questions most commonly asked about 
the Book of Mormon. 


                             PREPARED BY 
                    THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY 
                STATEMENT REGARDING THE BOOK OF MORMON 
                --------------------------------------

1.  The Smithsonian Institution has never used the Book of Mormon in 
any way as a scientific guide.  The Smithsonian archaeologists see no 
direct connection between archeology of the New World and the subject 
matter of the book. 

2.  The physical type of American Indian is basically Mongoloid, being 
most closely related to that of the peoples of eastern, central, and 
northeastern Asia.  Archeological evidence indicates that the 
ancestors of the present Indians came into the New World -- probably 
over a land bridge known to have existed in the Bering Strait region 
during the last Ice Age -- in a continuing series of small migrations 
beginning from about 25,000 to 30,000 years ago. 

3.  Present evidence indicates that the fist people to reach this 
continent from the East were the Norsemen who who briefly visited the 
northeastern part of North America around A.D. 1000 and then settled 
in Greenland.  There is nothing to show that they reached Mexico or 
Central America. 

4.  One of the main lines of evidence supporting the scientific 
finding that contacts with Old World civilizations, if indeed they 
occurred at all, were of very little significance for the development 
of American Indian civilizations, is the fact that none of the 
principal Old World domesticated food plants or animals (except the 
dog) occurred in the New World in pre-Columbian times.  American 
Indians had no wheat, barley, oats, millet, rice, cattle, pigs, 
chickens, horses, donkeys, camels before 1492.  (camels and horses 
were in the Americas, along with the bison, mammoth, mastodon, but all 
these animals became extinct around 10,000 B.C. at the time the early 
big game hunters spread across the Americas.) 

5.  Iron, steel, glass, and silk were not used in the New World before 
1492 (except for occasional use of unsmelted meteoric iron).  Native 
copper was worked in various locations in pre-Columbian times, but 
true metallurgy was limited to southern Mexico and the Andean region, 
where its occurrance in late prehistoric times involved gold, silver, 
copper, and their alloys, but not iron. 

6.  There is a possibility that the spread of cultural traits across 
the Pacific to Mesoamerica and the northwestern coast of South America 
began several hundred years before the Christian era.  However, any 
such inter-hemispheric contacts appear to have been the results of 
accidental voyages originating in eastern and southern Asia.  It is by 
no means certain that even such contacts occurred with the ancient 
Egyptians, Hebrews, or other peoples of Western Asia and the Near 
East. 

7.  No reputable Egyptologist or other specialist on Old World 
archeology, and no expert on New World prehistory, has discovered or 
confirmed any relationship between archeological remains in Mexico and 
archeological remains in Egypt. 

8.  Reports of findings of ancient Egyptian, Hebrew, and other Old 
World writings in the New World in pre-Columbian contexts have 
frequently appeared in newspapers, magazines and sensational books. 
None of these claims has stood up to examination by reputable 
scholars.  No inscriptions using Old World forms of writing have been 
shown to have occurred in any part of the Americas before 1492 except 
for a few Norse rune stones which have been found in Greenland. 

9.  There are copies of the Book of Mormon in the library of the 
National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution. 


NOTE: This article is an exact reproduction of a letter compiled by 
The Smithsonian Institution that was received by Computers for Christ, 
and has been graciously provided free of charge by them. 

For your own copy, write to: 

 The Smithsonian Institute 
 National Museum of Natural History 
 Department of Anthropology 
 Washington D.C.  20560 


 Computers For Christ, Panama City, Fl. 




X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
Mormon Instructions on Masturbation 
From a Guide to Mormon Youth 
====================================

          "Guide to Self-Control:  Overcoming Masturbation."

:: Enlist The Power Of Prayer

Pray daily, ask for the gifts of the Spirit, that which will strengthen
you against temptation.

Pray fervently and out loud when the temptations are the strongest.

When the temptation to masturbate is strong, yell "Stop!" to those
thoughts as loudly as you can in your mind. Then recite a portion of the
Bible or sing a hymn.

:: Exercise Vigorously

Follow a program of vigorous daily exercise, which reduce emotional
tension and depression.

Double your physical activity when you feel stress increasing.

:: Set Goals

Set a goal of abstinence. Begin with a day, then a week, month, year.
Finally, commit yourself to never doing it again.

Make a pocket calendar for a month on a small card.  Carry it with you but
show it to no one.

If you masturbate, color that day black.  Your goal will be to have no
black days.

The calendar becomes a strong visual reminder, and should be looked at
when you are tempted to add another black day.

Keep your calendar up until you have at least three clear months.

Set up a reward system.  Each time you reach a goal, award yourself a
quarter. Spend it on something that delights you.

:: Work On Self-Improvement

Work daily on a self-improvement program. Improve your relationships with
your family. Increase your service to your church.

Be outgoing and friendly. Force yourself to be with others and learn to
enjoy working and talking with them.

Change in behavior and attitude is most easily achieved through a changed
self-image.

Spend time every day imagining yourself strong and in control, easily
overcoming tempting situations.

:: Avoid Temptation

When on the toilet or showering, leave the door partly open.

Arise immediately in the mornings.  Don't lie awake in bed -- start each
day with enthusiastic activity.

Avoid people, situations, pictures and reading material that might create
sexual excitement.

:: Use Physical Restraints

Wear pajamas that are difficult to open, yet loose and not binding.

Put on several layers of clothing that would be difficult to remove while
half asleep.

Hold an object -- for example, a Bible -- even in bed at night.

In severe cases, tie a hand to the bed frame.

:: Be Alert To Emotions

Be aware of situations that depress you or that cause you to feel lonely,
bored, frustrated or discouraged.  These emotional states can trigger the
desire to masturbate as a way of escape.

Plan to counter these low periods through reading a book, visiting a
friend, doing something athletic, etc.

Employ aversion therapy.  To cancel out the pleasurableness of
masturbating , associate something very distasteful with the act.  For
example, imagine bathing in a tub of worms and eating some of them.

:: "Wet Dreams" Are Normal

Nocturnal emissions or "wet dreams" empty the seminal vesicles at night
during sleep. The impulses that cause the emptying come from the central
nervous system.

Often an erotic dream is experienced at the same time, and is a part of
this normal process.






X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 The Salted Slug                          Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           415-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
Newsgroups: talk.religion.misc
From: ACUS10@WACCVM.SPS.MOT.COM (Mark Fuller)
Subject: Mormon Rituals   ULM 1/4
Message-ID: <1993Apr28.233616.4464@newsgate.sps.mot.com>
Organization: Motorola Inc.
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 1993 23:35:16 GMT
Lines: 507

[This contains all 4 parts, concatenated.]

The following is was printed by Jerald and Sandra Tanner.
It is posted to provide more information on the LDS cult ritual
of temple ceremonies.  For further information on this subject,
or other subjects relating to the LDS, please call 801-485-8894
and ask for a catalog of materials.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
Issue no. 75, July 1990

Salt Lake City Messenger
Utah Lighthouse Ministry
PO Box, 1884, Salt lake City, Utah 84110
---------------------------------------------------------------------

                         Temple Ritual Altered
 Mormon Leaders Delete Some of the 'Most Sacred' Parts of the Ceremony



        In response to Fawn M. Brodie's book, _No Man Knows My History_,
the noted Mormon apologist Hugh Nibley declared: "Yet of all churches in
the world only this one has not found it necessary to readjust any part
of its doctrine in the last hundred years.... How does Brodie explain
the fact that the doctrine which she claims was the haphazard outgrowth
of complete opportunism remains the most stable on earth?" (_No Ma'am
That's Not History_, 1946, pp. 4647)

        Although most Mormons have always placed a great deal of weight
in Dr. Nibley's arguments, recent developments within the church itself
will undoubtedly cause many to wonder about his claims concerning
doctrinal stability. The New York Times gave this startling report in an
article which begins on the first page of the issue dated May 3, 1990:

                "The Mormon Church has changed some of its most sacred
   rituals, eliminating parts of the largely secret ceremonies that have
   been viewed as offensive to women and to members of some other
   faiths.
                "Last month the church... quietly dropped from its
   temple rituals a vow in which women pledged obedience to their
   husbands... and a portrayal of non-Mormon clergy as hirelings of
   Satan.
                "Church officials have confirmed that changes went into
   effect in mid-April, but the ceremonies are considered to be too
   sacred, they say, for them to comment further.... More specific
   information on the changes has been provided to the news media by
   Mormons participating in the rituals at the church's 43 temples
   around the world and by former Mormons who are critical of the
   rituals. A number of Mormons who would not discuss details of the
   rituals verified that these reports were 'pretty factual' or 'not
   inaccurate.'...
                "'Because the temple ceremony is sacred to us, we don't
   speak about it except in the most general terms,' said Beverly
   Campbell, the East Coast director for public communications for the
   Church... she said 'the ceremony itself needs to meet the needs of
   the people.' The revised ritual is 'more in keeping with the
   sensitivities we have as a society,' she added.
                "Lavina Fielding Anderson, who will soon become an
   editor of the _Journal of Mormon History_, said she 'greeted the
   changes with a great deal of joy,' and added, 'The temple ceremony in
   the past has given me a message that could be interpreted as
   subservient and exclusionary.'
                "In the place of an oath of obedience that men took to
   God and the church, the previous ceremony required women to vow
   obedience to their husbands...
                "Although Ms. Anderson would not describe any of the
   changes, she said the revision 'gives me hope and renewed faith that
   changes will occur in the future as they have in the past.'...
                "The ceremony also contains elements resembling the
   Masonic rituals current in 1830, when Joseph Smith founded the
   church...
                "The latest revisions diminish these elements, including
   gestures symbolizing the participant's pledge to undergo a gruesome
   death rather than reveal the rituals. Also dropped is a scene in
   which Satan hires a non-Mormon 'preacher' to spread false
   teachings....
                "Ross Peterson, the editor of _Dialogue_, an independent
   Mormon quarterly, said the unfamiliar elements of the ritual
   frequently 'catches young Mormons cold' and disturbs them. 'I've
   known an awful lot of people who went once and it was years before
   they'd go back, especially women,' he said....
                "Bruce L. Olsen, managing director of the church's
   communications office in Salt Lake City, denied that the changes were
   made in response to criticism or social pressure. The Mormon Church
   believes 'in continued and modern revelation,' Mr. Olsen said, so
   that practices might be changed when 'the Lord clarified' church
   teaching....
                "But some Mormons see the church as responding, without
   admitting it, both to critics and to the church's growth overseas....
                "Among the critics are many conservative Christians who
  complain that Mormonism features occult practices."

        The Arizona Republic (April 28, 1990) referred to the
modifications in the ceremony as "Revolutionary changes." The same
article went on to state:

                "The changes in the Temple Endowment Ceremony are seen
   as a move to bring the secret ceremony closer to mainstream
   Christianity. The changes are the most drastic revisions of the
   century...
                "Church officials in Salt Lake City refused to discuss
   the ceremony, which is shrouded in secrecy. In fact the church has
   issued a directive to temple members telling them to refrain from
   talking about the changes in the ceremony....
                "Another prominent Mormon, who asked not to be
   identified, confirmed that portions of the ceremony have been
   removed.
                "'The temple ceremony has been significantly abridged,'
   he said....
                "Changes in the ceremony include:... A modified version
   of the woman's vow of obedience to the husband....
                "I think this is in response to the feminist movement in
   the Mormon Church," said Sandra Tanner, a former Mormon who now heads
   Utah Lighthouse Ministries in Salt Lake City. 'Many of the women
   objected to the obedience.' "

        An article by Associated Press writer Vem Anderson also noted
that the ceremony has "undergone what some view as their most
significant changes this century." He went on to say:

                "The revisions, effective April 10 in the faith's 43
   temples, are being greeted with enthusiasm by church members who say
   they reflect a greater sensitivity toward women and other religions.
                "'The temple is an important part of my spiritual life
   and the changes have allowed me to go to the temple with renewed
   joy,' said Lavina Fielding Anderson...
                "'The general consensus is that it's a breath of fresh
   air,' said Ross Peterson, co-editor of _Dialogue_, an independent
   Mormon journal....
                "Peterson said many Mormons who never had expressed a
   negative word about the endowment ceremony are thrilled with the
   changes, indicating there had been elements that 'were silently
   upsetting them.'
                "'I think we're gradually moving away from the
   subjugation of women,' Peterson said....
                "Rebecca England... said the changes may boost temple
   attendance.
                "'I know quite a number of Mormons who stopped going to
   the temple because they found it demeaning. And I think this revised
   ceremony addresses many of the concerns...
                "The changes were not announced to the membership at
   large, but temple attendees are being read a statement from the
   governing First Presidency which says the revisions, following long
   and prayerful review, were unanimously approved by that three-member
   body and the advisory Quorum of the Twelve Apostles." (Salt Lake
   Tribune, April 29, 1990)

        On May 5, 1990, the Los Angeles Times printed an article by John
Dart. In this article we find the following:

                "The central temple ceremony in the Mormon Church has
   been changed to eliminate the woman's vow to obey her husband... In
   the new version of the rites, women now pledge to obey God and to
   merely listen to the advice of their husbands.
                "'That's the most significant change in the church since
   blacks received the priesthood in 1978,' said Ron Priddis, vice
   president of Signature Books...
                "The new version 'reflects greater sensitivity and
   awareness of women and women's role in the Christian church,' said
   Robert Rees, a Mormon bishop... Although unwilling to disclose
   elements of the ritual, Rees nevertheless said that some parts
   eliminated 'were historical and cultural anachronisms.' "

        On June 2, 1990, The Salt Lake Tribune ran an article by Los
Angeles Times writer John Dart. In that article, Mr. Dart reported that,
"Most Mormon Church members quoted last month in news stories about
revisions in the church's confidential temple ceremony have been
summoned for interviews by church officials... One man said he was
reprimanded for talking to the press and another was asked to surrender
his 'temple recommend'... The public communications office of the
Church... issued a statement Thursday, defending the questioning of
members and reemphasizing the sacred confidentiality of the temples."

REVEALED BY GOD

        Mormon leaders have always proclaimed that the temple ritual--
often referred to as the "temple endowment" because the recipients are
supposed to be "endowed with power from on high"--was given to Joseph
Smith, the first Mormon prophet, by revelation. The ordinances in this
ritual, which are performed for both the living and the dead (by proxy),
are considered to be "most sacred." A person has to go through these
ceremonies before becoming a missionary and those who desire to be
married in the temple for "time and eternity" must first have their
"temple endowments."

        Mormon theology teaches that those who are married in the temple
can eventually become Gods and rule over their own creations. Apostle
Bruce R. McConkie affirmed that the righteous who are married in the
temple "for time and eternity" have "gained eternal life (exaltation),
the greatest of all the gifts of God... Those so inheriting are the sons
and daughters of God... They are joint-heirs with Christ... becoming
gods in their own right.'- (Mormon Doctrine, 1979, pp. 117-18) President
Joseph Fielding Smith, the 10th prophet of the church, made the matter
very clear:

                "It fills my heart with sadness when I see in the paper
   the name of a daughter or a son of members of this Church, and
   discover that she or he is going to have a ceremony and be married
   outside of the temple of the Lord, because I realize what it means,
   that they are cutting themselves off from exaltation in the kingdom
   of God.... These young people who seem to be so happy now, when they
   rise in the resurrection--and find themselves in the condition in
   which they will find themselves -- then there will be weeping, and
   wailing, and gnashing of teeth, and bitterness of soul...
                "Civil Marriage Makes Servants In Eternity.... Celestial
   Marriage Makes Gods In Eternity.... it is open to us; it is a free
   gift; it doesn't cost us anything: only righteousness, faith,
   obedience; and surely we can pay that price." (Doctrines of
   Salvation, vol. 2, p. 60-63)

        Mormons who go through the temple ceremony and are sealed in
marriage for eternity believe that they will not only become Gods, but
will also continue to have children throughout all eternity. They will
people other worlds with their spiritual children and these children
will worship and pray to the husband as God. Mormons feel that the God
of the Bible was not always God and that he also had to pass through the
same endowments to achieve deity. Wilford Woodruff, who became the 4th
prophet of the Mormon Church, proclaimed that "the Lord had His
endowments long ago; it is thousands and millions of years since He
received His blessings... He is far in advance of us." (Journal of
Discourses, vol. 4, p. 192)

        According to a revelation given by Joseph Smith, those who will
not submit to Celestial Marriage are "appointed angels in heaven, which
angels are ministering servants, to minister for those who are worthy of
a far more, and an exceeding, and an eternal weight of glory... these
angels... remain separately and singly, without exaltation, in their
saved condition, to all eternity; and from henceforth are not Gods, but
are angels of God forever and ever." (Doctrine and Covenants 132:16-17)

        Although faithful Mormons have written many articles and books
on temples, they have been very careful not to tell what actually goes
on in the endowment ritual. One of the most revealing and concise
statements, however, comes from comments President Brigham Young made in
1877. These comments were recorded in the diary of L. John Nuttall. The
2nd prophet of the church remarked:

                "When we got our washings and anointings under the hands
   of the Prophet Joseph at Nauvoo, we had only one room to work in,
   with the exception of a little side room or office where we were
   washed and anointed, had our garment placed upon us and received our
   new name; and after he had performed these ceremonies, he gave the
   key-words, signs, tokens, and penalties. Then after, we went into the
   large room... Joseph Smith divided up the room the best that he
   could, hung up the veil, marked it, gave us our instructions as we
   passed along from one department to another, giving us signs, tokens,
   penalties, with the key-words pertaining to those signs." (Statement
   of Brigham Young, recorded in the diary of L. John Nuttall, Feb. 7,
   1877, as cited in _God, Man, And The Universe_, by Hyrum L. Andrus,
   1968, p. 334)

        The reader will notice that President Young mentioned washings,
anointings, garments, the new name, the key-words, signs, tokens and
penalties. He also stated that there was a "veil" with certain marks on
it. On another occasion, Brigham Young made it clear that the endowment
contains secret information that the initiated need to get into heaven:
"Your endowment is, to receive all those ordinances in the House of the
Lord... to enable you to walk back to the presence of the Father,
passing the angels who stand as sentinels, being enabled to give them
the key words, the signs and tokens, pertaining to the Holy Priesthood,
and gain your eternal exaltation in spite of earth and hell." (Journal
of Discourses, vol. 2, p. 31) Those who have actually been through the
ceremony affirm that secret grips, signs and key-words are learned
during the ceremony which will be needed after death for a person to
gain entrance into God's presence. It is at the "veil" that the Lord
himself questions the candidate who desires to enter into his presence.

        The fact that the temple ritual was changed by the present
leaders of the church will undoubtedly cause serious problems for many
devout members of the church who feel that these ceremonies cannot be
tampered with. They will probably have a difficult time understanding
how the General Authorities can meddle with a sacred ceremony which was
supposed to have been given by revelation to Joseph Smith.

        The inspired nature of the ritual has been impressed on the
minds of the Mormon people since the 1840's. Even before the Nauvoo
temple was built, Joseph Smith gave a revelation foretelling that God
himself was about to restore the ancient mysteries that had been lost
from the earth: "...build a house to my name, for the Most High to dwell
therein. For there is not a place found on earth that he may come to and
restore again that which was lost unto you, or which he hath taken away,
even the fulness of the priesthood.... And verily I say unto you, let
this house be built unto my name, that I may reveal mine ordinances
therein... For I deign to reveal unto my church things which have been
kept hid from before the foundation of the world, things that pertain to
the dispensation of the fulness of times. And I will show unto my
servant Joseph all things pertaining to this house, and the priesthood
thereof, and the place whereon it shall be built." (Doctrine and
Covenants 124:27-28, 40-42)

        After Joseph Smith received the endowment ceremony, it was
accepted as a divine revelation from God. Since that time church leaders
have continued to stress that the endowment came from heaven. Apostle
John A. Widtsoe, for instance, wrote the following: "Joseph Smith
received the temple endowment and its ritual, as all else that he
promulgated, by revelation from God. " (Joseph Smith -- Seeker After
Truth, Prophet Of God, 1951, p. 249) Apostle Bruce R. McConkie wrote the
following under the title "Temple Ordinances": "Certain gospel
ordinances are of such a sacred and holy nature that the Lord authorizes
their performance only in holy sanctuaries prepared and dedicated for
that very purpose.... They were given in modern times to the Prophet
Joseph Smith by revelation, many things connected with them being
translated by the Prophet from the papyrus on which the Book of Abraham
was recorded." (Mormon Doctrine, p. 779) The current prophet of the
church, Ezra Taft Benson, does not hesitate to affirm that the endowment
ritual came by revelation:

                "The endowment was revealed by revelation and can be
   understood only by revelation....
                "This temple... is a place of revelation.... The laws
   and ordinances which cause men and women to come out of the world and
   become sanctified are administered only in these holy places. They
   were given by revelation and are comprehended by revelation." (The
   Teachings of Ezra Taft Benson, 1988, pp. 250, 252)
+++
        In the past, Mormon leaders have not only taught that the
endowment came by revelation, but also that it was not changed since the
time of Joseph Smith. Just after the church passed into the 20th
century, there was an attempt to remove Mormon Senator Reed Smoot from
his seat. These lengthy hearings are usually referred to as the Reed
Smoot Case. Although Senator Smoot retained his seat, the hearings
proved to be very embarrassing for the church because of the testimony
given concerning polygamy after the Manifesto and charges of Mormon
Church interference in politics. In any case, when Senator Smoot, who
was also an apostle in the church, was questioned about the endowment
ceremony, he responded: "...the endowments have never changed; as I
understand it; it has been so testified, and that Joseph Smith, jr.,
himself was the founder of the endowments." (Reed Smoot Case, vol. 3, p.
185)

        On page 140 of the same volume, the following statements by
President Joseph F. Smith, the 6th prophet of the church, were entered
into the record:

                "It [the Nauvoo temple] was finished... and was
   dedicated unto the Lord. The ordinances of the house of God were
   administered therein as they had been taught to the leading
   authorities of the church by the Prophet Joseph Smith himself. The
   same gospel, the same ordinances, the same authority and blessings
   that were administered by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and taught by him
   to his associates, are now being enjoyed by and taught to the
   Latter-Day Saints in the four temples... When you hear anybody say we
   have changed the ordinances, that we have transgressed the laws, or
   broken the everlasting covenants which were entered into under the
   personal administration of the Prophet Joseph Smith, tell them for
   me... and for all those who are living today who received blessings
   and ordinances under the hands of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that they
   are in error. The same gospel prevails to-day, and the same
   ordinances are administered today, both for the living and for the
   dead, as were administered by the prophet himself and delivered by
   him to the church."

        These statements by President Smith were originally printed in
the church's newspaper, _Deseret Evening News_, Dec. 1, 1900. President
Smith's son, Joseph Fielding Smith, who served as the 10th prophet of
the church in the early 1970's, printed an affidavit by Bathsheba W.
Smith which contained the following: "Near the close of the year 1843,
or in the beginning of the year 1844, I received the ordinance of
anointing... the same day... I received my endowment... The endowments
were given under the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith... there has
been no change, to my certain knowledge, in these ceremonies, They are
the same today as they were then." (Blood Atonement and the Origin of
Plural Marriage, p. 87)

        Mormon leaders have not only taught that their church has not
changed its doctrines and ordinances, but they have pointed to changes
by other churches as evidence of apostacy. In an editorial published in
the Church Section of the _Deseret News_, June 5, 1965, we find the
following: "...God is unchangeable, the same yesterday, today and
forever.... The great mistake made down through the ages by teachers of
Christianity, is that they have supposed they could place their own
private interpretation upon scriptures, allow their own personal
convenience to become a controlling factor, and change the basis of
[C]hristian law and practice to suit themselves. This is apostacy.

        "The Gospel can not possibly be changed... the saving principles
must ever be the same. They can never change.... the Gospel must always
be the same in all of its parts.... no one can change the Gospel... if
they attempt to do so, they only set up a man-made system which is not
the Gospel, but is merely a reflection of their own views.... if we
substitute 'any other Gospel,' there is no salvation in it.... the Lord
and His Gospel remain the same --always."

        In 1982, W. Grant Bangerter, executive director of the Temple
Department and a member of the First Quorum of Seventy, made it very
clear that the temple ceremony could not be changed:

                "'As temple work progresses, some members wonder if the
   ordinances can be changed or adjusted. These ordinances have been
   provided by revelation, and are in the hands of the First Presidency.
   Thus, the temple is protected from tampering." (Deseret News, Church
   Section, January 16, 1982)

        It would appear that instead of protecting the ordinances, the
current First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve Apostles have
themselves been "tampering" with them. It is interesting to note that
the first Mormon prophet, Joseph Smith, proclaimed that the ordinances
could never be changed:

                "Now the purpose in Himself in the winding up scene of
   the last dispensation is that all things pertaining to that
   dispensation should be conducted precisely in accordance with the
   preceding dispensations.... He set the ordinances to be the same
   forever and ever, and set Adam to watch over them, to reveal them
   from heaven to man, or to send angels to reveal them." (History of
   the Church, vol. 4, p. 208)

        The Book of Mormon itself accuses the Catholics of conspiring to
alter the Bible. It bluntly states that "many plain and precious things"
have been deliberately removed:

                "...thou seest the formation of that great and
   abominable church, which is most abominable above all other churches;
   for behold they have taken away from the gospel of the Lamb many
   parts which are plain and most precious; and also many covenants of
   the Lord have they taken away.... this they have done that they might
   pervert the right ways of the Lord, that they might blind the eyes
   and harden the hearts of the children of men.... thou seest that
   after the book hath gone forth through the hands of the great and
   abominable church, that there are many plain and precious things
   taken away from the book... because of the many plain and precious
   things which have been taken out of the book... an exceedingly great
   many do stumble, yea, insomuch that Satan hath great power over
   them." (Book of Mormon, I Nephi 13:26-30)

        Joseph Fielding Smith, Jr., the son of the 10th prophet of the
church, charged: "The Bible alone is an insufficient guide because the
'plainness of the gospel' has been removed.... The early 'apostate
fathers' did not think it was wrong to tamper with inspired scripture.
If any scripture seemed to endanger their viewpoint, it was altered,
transplanted or completely removed from the biblical text. All this was
done that they might keep their traditions. Such mutilation was
considered justifiable to preserve the so-called 'purity' of their
doctrines." (Religious Truths Defined, 1959, pp. 175-76)

        Mormon Apostle Mark E. Petersen bluntly stated: "Many insertions
were made [in the Bible], some of them 'slanted' for selfish purposes,
while at times deliberate falsifications and fabrications were
perpetrated." (As Translated Correctly, 1966, p. 4)

        The current prophet of the church, President Ezra Taft Benson,
emphatically proclaimed: "The Book of Mormon is the keystone in our
witness of Jesus Christ... Unlike the Bible, which passed through
generations of copyists, translators and corrupt religionists who
tampered with the text, the Book of Mormon came from writer to reader in
just one inspired step of translation." (The Teachings of Ezra Taft
Benson, 1988, page 53)

        Since Mormon leaders and apologists have freely criticized other
churches for making changes and have claimed that their doctrines are
"the most stable on earth," the General Authorities of the church must
have approached the question of changing the temple ceremony with a great
deal of caution. David John Buerger informs us that when some procedural
changes were suggested in the temple ceremony some years ago, "initial
opposition came from Elder Harold B. Lee due to what he perceived as
'doctrinal tampering.' " (Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought, Winter
1987, p. 63) Harold B. Lee later became the 11th prophet of the church.
While minor changes have been made in the ceremony during the last few
decades, they appear insignificant when compared with those made on
April 10, 1990.

        We would suspect that the Mormon leaders must have decided to
make the present changes many months ago. Since "motion pictures have
replaced some of the live actors" in most of the temples, it follows
that it would take time to make new films containing the changes. The
Salt Lake Tribune, April 29, 1990, reported that the "new endowment
film, the fifth since the 1950s, incorporates the most recent
revisions." (The Story of the Latter-day Saints, 1976, p. 574) It should
also be noted that it would take time to make new translations of the
changes for the foreign temples.

        We may never know for certain whether George P. Lee, who was a
member of the First Quorum of the Seventy, knew of the proposed changes
in the temple ceremony before his excommunication was announced in the
September 2, 1989, issue of the Salt Lake Tribune. It is interesting to
note, however, that in a letter "To the First Presidency and the
Twelve," Lee did mention his concern that other church leaders felt they
could change the gospel:

                "7. I have heard a few of you declare that you are
   greater than ancient apostles such as Moses, Abraham, Noah[,]
   Is[a]iah, Isaac, Jacob and etc. This reflects the attitude of all of
   you.
                "8. I have heard one of [or?] more of you declare that
   you can change anything Jesus had said or taught. This also reflects
   the attitude of all of you." (Letter by George P. Lee,
   photographically printed in Excommunication of a Mormon Church
   Leader, page 54)

        Less than two weeks before the changes were made in the temple,
President Gordon B. Hinckley, First Counselor in the First Presidency,
expressed concern about members of the church talking about the temple
ceremony: "I remind you of the absolute obligation to not discuss
outside the temple that which occurs wi @hin the temple. Sacred matters
deserve sacred consideration. We are under obligation, binding and
serious, to not use temple language or speak of temple matters
outside... do not discuss outside of the temple that which occurs in the
temple.... when you leave the doors of the House of the Lord, be true to
a sacred trust to speak not of that which is holy and sanctified." (The
Ensign, May 1990, p. 52) It seems obvious that President Hinckley gave
this warning in an attempt to keep members from talking about the
changes which were to be made in the ceremony ten days later. It is
obvious, of course, that Hinckley's admonition was not followed by many
members of the church and therefore accounts of the changes in the
ritual made their way to the news media. We had been told that changes
would be made some time before they actually took place, and members of
the church discussed them with us after they were made.

Newsgroups: talk.religion.misc
From: ACUS10@WACCVM.SPS.MOT.COM (Mark Fuller)
Subject: Mormon Rituals   ULM 2/4
Message-ID: <1993Apr28.233708.4526@newsgate.sps.mot.com>
Organization: Motorola Inc.
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 1993 23:36:18 GMT
Lines: 493

        It is interesting to note that the changes in the temple
ceremony were put into effect immediately after the church's general
conference had ended (the conference ended April 1st and the changes
were made on April 10th). The temple presidents were apparently given
instructions about the changes before they returned from conference to
their work in the various temples throughout the world. The general
membership of the church, however, left the conference completely in the
dark with regard to what was about to happen to their sacred ritual.
Since it would be six months before another general conference would
take place, any dissenting opinions or discussion of the changes would
have to take place on a local level.

        Church leader Joseph Fielding Smith declared that "One of the
greatest blessings given to mankind is the gift of free agency."
(Answers to Gospel Questions, vol. 3, p. 46) As far as we can determine,
faithful Latter-day Saints were given no chance to exercise their free
agency with regard to the changes made in the endowment ceremony. The
method of handling this whole matter, however, was in accord with a
statement which appeared in the official Mormon publication Improvement
Era, June 1945 (p. 354): "When our leaders speak, the thinking has been
done. When they propose a plan--it is God's plan. When they point the
way, there is no other which is safe. When they give direction, it
should mark the end of controversy."

        Although it is often ignored, the church actually has a doctrine
of "common consent" which should have applied to the alterations made in
the temple ritual. In a revelation given by Joseph Smith in July 1830 we
find the following: "And all things shall be done by common consent in
the church, by much prayer and faith, for all things you shall receive
by faith. Amen." (Doctrine and Covenants 26:2) Section 28:13 reaffirms
that "all things must be done in order, and by common consent in the
church..."

        Joseph F. Smith, the 6th prophet of the church, testified as
follows in the Reed Smoot investigation: "Mr. Smith-: I will say this,
Mr. Chairman, that no revelation given through the head of the church
ever becomes binding and authoritative upon the members of the church
until it has been presented to the church and accepted by them." (Reed
Smoot Case, vol. 1, p. 96) Apostle John Henry Smith gave this testimony
in vol. 2, p. 321:

                "Mr. Smith-: Yes, sir; he [the prophet] receives
   revelations; but the revelations must be accepted by his church by
   vote.
                "Mr. Tayler-: So that what the Almighty orders depends
   on whether the people who are ordered want to do it or not?
                "Mr. Smith. Yes, sir, there is no force on the Mormon
   people."

        Apostle James E. Talmage likewise testified: "If it is a
revelation it is a revelation, and amounts to just so much; but as to
being a binding law upon the church--a law of practice and action -- it
would have to be first adopted by the church to become such." (vol. 3,
p. 80)

        From the testimony given by the Mormon leaders, a person would
certainly be led to believe that a major revision of the temple ritual
(a ceremony which was supposed to have been given by revelation) would
have to be approved by church members before it would be binding on the
Mormon people and used in the church's 43 temples. For the General
Authorities to drop out important portions of a ceremony they claim came
from God himself, seems far worse than what they have charged the
Catholics with doing. After all, the Book of Mormon's accusation that
the "great and abominable church" removed "many plain and precious
things" from the Bible (a charge which the Mormon leaders cannot prove)
relates to portions that would have been available at one time to
everyone that had access to the Biblical text. The items which were
removed from the temple ceremony were supposed to have been so sacred
that they were never revealed to the world. These secret ceremonies
could only be found in the temples of the Lord. These rituals, in fact,
purport to give the information on how men may become Gods!

        Mormon leaders who have now passed away would have been shocked
at what the present leaders altered or removed from the temple ceremony.
Apostle James E. Talmage emphasized: "No jot, iota, or tittle of the
temple rites is otherwise than uplifting and sanctifying. In every
detail the endowment ceremony contributes to covenants of morality of
life, consecration of person to high ideals, devotion to truth,
patriotism to nation, and allegiance to God." (The House of the Lord
1968, p. 84)
+++
        As the newspaper accounts have stated, the Mormon leaders have
removed the "penalties" which were previously held to be extremely
important and sacred. The reader will remember that we have quoted
President Brigham Young as saying that Joseph Smith himself "gave the
key-words, signs, tokens, and penalties." Before the recent changes in
the ceremony, it was stressed in the ceremony itself that the penalties
were sacred: "We are required to give you the First Tokens of the
Aaronic Priesthood. Before doing this, however, we desire to impress
upon your minds the sacred character of the First Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign and penalty, together with
that of all the other Tokens of the Holy Priesthood, with their
accompanying names, signs and penalties, which you will receive in the
temple this day. They are most sacred and are guarded by solemn
covenants and obligations of secrecy to the effect that under no
condition, even at the peril of your life, will you ever divulge them...
The representation of the penalties indicates different ways in which
life may be taken." (Mormonism-- Shadow or Reality? p. 468)

        From this it is very clear that the penalties, which have now
been removed from the temple ritual, were previously considered to be
"most sacred."

        Harold B. Lee, who later became the 12th prophet of the church,
compared the things found in the temple ritual to the "pearls" that
Jesus mentioned in Matthew 7:6: "'But we say the ordinances are sacred
as contrasted with just being secret.... the Master said, 'Give not that
which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine,
lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you....
in temples like this, there could be revealed that which couldn't be had
otherwise.'" (Improvement Era Feb. 1965, p. 123, as cited in _Achieving
a Celestial Marriage_ p. 202) Other Mormon leaders have also identified
the elements of the temple ceremony with the pearls mentioned by Christ.
If this were the case, it would appear that the Mormon leaders have now
thrown away some of their "most sacred" pearls!

SECRETS LEAK OUT

        Joseph Smith swore those who took part in the endowments to
secrecy, but because of his practice of plural marriage and other
doctrines he taught, many of his followers became alienated from the
Mormon Church and some of them revealed the contents of the ritual. An
account was published as early as April 15, 1846, in the Warsaw Signal.
Increase McGee Van Dusen and his wife exposed the temple ceremony in
1847, and their account was reprinted several times. Many other exposes
were printed in the 19th century. As we noted earlier, the Reed Smoot
investigation took place just after the turn of the century. At that
time many people who had been through the ritual were questioned
regarding its contents. While a number refused to talk about it, others
spoke concerning what went on in the temples. Their testimony was
printed by the United States Government in four volumes.

        In 1889 John Moore and W.J. Edgar were denied citizenship
because it was believed that they had taken "an oath or obligation
incompatible with the oath of citizenship..." As in the Reed Smoot
investigation, Mormons or those who had formerly been Mormons were
called upon to give testimony concerning the temple ceremony. In the
"Temple Lot Case," a dispute over the property on which a temple was to
be built, additional testimony was given concerning the ritual. Much of
this testimony appears in a large volume entitled, The Temple Lot Case.

        On February 12, 1906, the Salt Lake Tribune printed the temple
ritual, and in 1931, W. M. Paden published an account of the endowment
ceremony in Temple Mormonism --Its Evolution, Ritual and Meaning. In
1964, William J. Whalen printed the ceremony (see Latter-Day Saints in
the Modern Day World), and two years later John L. Smith, a Baptist
minister, published the ritual in _I Visited the Temple_.

        In 1964, we reprinted Paden's 1931 publication concerning the
temple ceremony. We suspected, however, that there had been some changes
in the ceremony over the years. Since we wanted to publish the most
accurate account possible, we had a couple who had been through the
ritual about fifty times revise Paden's work. Later, however, a man who
had been through the temple approximately 120 times heard that we were
preparing to publish the ritual and felt that it was important that the
most accurate account possible should be given to the world. He,
therefore, volunteered to bring the ceremony right up to date. We
published this account in vol. 1 of _The Mormon Kingdom_ in 1969, and
later we incorporated this same account into our book,
_Mormonism--Shadow or Reality?_ Tens of thousands of copies have been
distributed throughout the world since that time. It was our feeling
that Mormons should have the right to know what they were getting into
before they were sworn to secrecy and had to take part in the
demonstration of the penalties. Although we felt that we were performing
an important service for the Mormon people, many people were horrified
that we would dare to print the ritual. Nevertheless, a number of Mormon
scholars verified that we had produced an extremely accurate account of
the ceremony. Many Mormons had a difficult time believing that God would
allow anyone to reproduce the ritual and found it hard to believe that a
printed copy actually existed. Writing in the Los Angeles Times, May 5,
1990, John Dart commented: "Some candid Mormon officials have
acknowledged in interviews that the whole secret ritual was published
years ago by church critics Jerald and Sandra Tanner of Salt Lake City."

        The Salt Lake City Public Library obtained a number of copies of
_Mormonism--Shadow or Reality?_ Unfortunately, however, there was a
continual problem with people ripping or cutting out pages which related
to the temple endowment. Some people wondered if the church would allow
us to continue to publish the ritual. We shared the same concern, but,
as it turned out, the Mormons allowed us to continue exercising our
freedom of religion and of the press.

        In any case, as far as the Mormon Church was concerned, the
situation turned from bad to worse. About eleven years after our
publication of the ceremony, Bob Whitte and Gordon H. Fraser printed the
ritual in a pamphlet entitled, _What's Going on in Here?_ Later, Chuck
and Dolly Sackett published a pamphlet with a similar title, _What's
Going on in There?_ The Sackett's pamphlet was unique in that on page 4
of the booklet they claimed that their printing "was transcribed from a
tape recording made inside the temple during the actual Endowment
ceremony." While Mormons questioned the ethics of someone secretly
recording the ceremony, no one seemed to doubt that the tape recording
had actually been made. The Sacketts, who had previously been deeply
involved in genealogy and temple work for the church, went a step
further and began duplicating copies of the tape recording so that
others could actually hear what went on inside the temple. These tapes
were extensively circulated and even played on radio stations.

        Another member of the Mormon Church secretly recorded the temple
ritual in the Provo temple and a good number of copies of this tape have
also been circulated. Many others have published material or made films
concerning the endowment ritual. Still others have given lectures about
it. The cumulative effect of all the audio and video tapes, lectures,
radio programs, films and printed copies of the ceremony being available
to the general public has placed the Mormon leaders in a very awkward
predicament. They had previously maintained that the temple ritual was
so holy that God kept the knowledge of it from the world. Apostle Bruce
R. McConkie declared: "So sacred and holy are the administrations
performed that in every age when they have been revealed, the Lord has
withheld them from the knowledge of the world and disclosed them only to
the faithful saints in houses and places dedicated and selected for that
purpose." (Mormon Doctrine, p. 227)

        To an outsider, it would almost appear that the Mormon leaders
and the God they worship have lost all control over the dissemination of
the ceremony. The contents of the ritual have been scattered to the ends
of the world. Many non-Mormons now know far more about the endowments
than the average Mormon. Only adults are permitted to go through the
temple, and, according to the Church Section of the Mormon newspaper,
Deseret News, Jan. 16, 1982, "two-thirds of the adult members have yet
to go through the temple for the first time, said Elder W. Grant
Bangerter, executive director of the Temple Department..." The same
issue of the church's newspaper also noted that Bangerter said that
"Through the history of the Church... only a fourth of the members have
received endowments..." It is certainly ironic that a person can now
easily obtain a non-Mormon publication such as _Mormonism--Shadow or
Reality?_ or _What's Going On In There?_ and find out more about the
temple ceremony in a few minutes than most of the Mormons learn in a
lifetime! Furthermore, the material available to the public seems to be
proliferating as the Mormon Church grows larger.

        Mormon leaders are not only faced with trying to explain the
availability of a ceremony which they previously asserted was "withheld"
from the "knowledge of the world," but they also will find it very
difficult to explain why God did not protect his sacred temple from
those who brought in tape recorders to expose the ceremony. It has been
a common belief among the Mormons that God's hand protects the temple
and its rituals. Ezra Taft Benson, who is currently the prophet of the
church, stated: "I think the temple is the most sacred spot on earth...
Temples are places of personal revelation." (The Teachings of Ezra Taft
Benson, pp. 250- 51) One would think that if the spirit of the Lord
flows freely in the temple, deceivers would be detected. In the Old
Testament, II Chronicles 26:17-21, we read the story of a wicked king
named Uzziah who "went into the temple of the Lord to burn incense upon
the altar of incense." He was warned that only the priests who were
"consecrated to burn incense" were allowed to do so. When he persisted
he was "smitten" by the Lord with "leprosy" and was "a leper unto the
day of his death."

        Mormon Apostle Bruce R. McConkie maintained that "the discerning
of spirits is poured out upon presiding officials in God's kingdom; they
have it given to them to discern all gifts and all spirits, lest any
come among the saints and practice deception.... There is no perfect
operation of the power of discernment without revelation. Thereby even
'the thoughts and intents of the heart' are made known." Apostle Mathias
F. Cowley told how the gift of discernment protected the temple: "On one
of the three days during which the Dedicatory Services of the Logan
Temple was held, President John Taylor... sighted a woman in the crowd
whom he did not know but indicated her to President Card and said:
'Don't let that woman come into the assembly; she is not worthy.'...
Brother Card said to President Taylor: 'She couldn't pass the door
keeper without a recommend.' President Taylor replied, 'That matters
not; she is not worthy.'... Brother Card turned her back and later on he
went to see her... she said there was a man in the ward who was not
worthy of a recommend, but the Bishop gave him one... This woman
happened to meet the man on the street and he asked her how she would
like to go to the dedication... She said she would like to but could not
get a recommend. He said: 'I have a recommend and will give it to you
for one dollar.' And so she got her recommend by paying this amount"
(Temples of the Most High, p. 100)

        One would think that if the temples were protected by God and
the current Mormon officials were really led by revelation, those who
used deception to obtain tape recordings to expose the endowment
ceremony would have encountered judgment from God or at least been
thwarted in their nefarious plans to discredit the church. The Sacketts,
however, report the following: "The tape recording of the Mormon temple
Endowment... was recorded in the Los Angeles Mormon Temple, and was made
using a personal pocket-size tape recorder carried by one of the
patrons... The patron... entered the temple using his own personal
temple recommend... He was greeted by several temple worker
acquaintances who obviously did not know of his excommunication from the
Mormon Church, which had been at his own request several months earlier.
One of the objectives of this foray was to test the well-known Mormon
claim of divinely-assisted temple security.... Contrary to popular
Mormon belief, not one person in the temple appeared the slightest bit
spiritually or supernaturally alerted to the presence among them of one
whom they classify as an 'apostate' and a 'son of perdition.' As he
departed, the patron was encouraged by a member of the temple Presidency
to return again soon." (What's Going On In There? p. 4)

        When we think of this incident with the tape recorder, we cannot
help but remember a picture of Mark Hofmann, the man who forged Mormon
documents, standing in the presence of the 12th prophet of the church,
Spencer W. Kimball, and four of the apostles. In this photograph, which
we have reproduced in our book, _Tracking the White Salamander_, p. 73,
the prophet and the apostles appear to be carefully examining what
purports to be the prophet Joseph Smith's copy of characters found on
the gold plates of the Book of Mormon. This document, of course, was a
forgery, but the Mormon leaders were completely oblivious to that fact.
Mr. Hofmann continued meeting with church leaders for about four years
for the express purpose of deceiving them so that they would give him
large amounts of money in exchange for his fraudulent documents. Church
leaders, however, could not discern the wicked plan that Hofmann had in
his heart. While the Mormon leaders claim to have the same powers as the
ancient apostles in the Bible, their performance with regard to Mark
Hofmann certainly does not match up to that of the Apostle Peter when he
caught Ananias and Sapphira red-handed in their attempt to deceive the
church with regard to a financial transaction: "But Peter said, Ananias,
why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost, and to keep
back part of the price of the land?" (Acts 5:3)

        From the time the endowment ritual was first revealed in Nauvoo,
Mormon leaders have feared that the contents of the ceremony would
become known. It now seems that all of their efforts to stop the spread
of knowledge concerning the endowment ceremony have been completely in
vain.
+++
NO MORE PENALTIES

        We have already noted that the Mormon leaders have now removed
the "most sacred" penalties which have been in the temple ceremony since
the days of Joseph Smith. We feel that this is a real vindication of our
work and of that of the many other ministries laboring with the Mormons.

        We have always felt that these penalties were not compatible
with Christian teachings and have strongly opposed them in print for
over twenty years. We have continually expressed our belief that Joseph
Smith borrowed the penalties from Masonry after he joined that secret
organization. Although Masonry had been very unpopular since the late
1820's, Smith was not ashamed of his association with the lodge in 1842.
The following appears in Joseph Smith's _History_ under the date of
March 15, 1842: "In the evening I received the first degree in Free
Masonry in the Nauvoo Lodge..." (History of the Church, vol 4, p. 551)
The entry for the following day contains this statement: "Wednesday,
March 16.--I was with the Masonic Lodge and rose to the sublime degree."
(p. 552)

        The Masons had some very bloody oaths in their ritual. Capt.
William Morgan, who had been a Mason for thirty years, exposed these
oaths in a book printed in 1827. After publishing his book, _Freemasonry
Exposed_, Morgan disappeared and this set off the great controversy over
Masonry which was still raging when Joseph Smith wrote the Book of
Mormon. In any case, on pages 21-22 of his book, Morgan revealed the
oath that Masons took in the "First Degree" of their ritual: "...I
will... never reveal any part or parts, art or arts, point or points of
the secret arts and mysteries of ancient Freemasonry... binding myself
under no less penalty than to have my throat cut across, my tongue torn
out by the roots..." On page 23, Morgan went on to show that the Masons
who went through the first degree were also taught to draw "your right
hand across your throat, the thumb next to your throat, your arm as high
as the elbow in a horizontal position."

        In the past, Mormon leaders have argued against the charge by
critics that changes have been made in the temple ceremony. Our
examination of the evidence, however, reveals that their statements were
not correct. Serious changes have been made in the ritual, and these
changes have tended to obscure the fact that the penalties were derived
from Masonry. For example, it is clear from many early sources that the
promise given when one received "The First token of the Aaronic
Priesthood" was derived from the oath given in the "First Degree" of the
Masonic ritual. In Temple Mormonism, published in 1931, p. 18, we find
this information concerning the Mormon ritual:

                "The left arm is here placed at the square, palm to the
   front the right hand and arm raised to the neck, holding the palm
   downwards and thumb under the right ear.
                "Adam--'We, and each of us, covenant and promise that we
   will not reveal any of the secrets of this, the first token of the
   Aaronic priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign or penalty.
   Should we do so, we agree that our throats be cut from ear to ear and
   our tongues torn out by their roots.'...
                "Sign--In executing the sign of the penalty, the right
   hand palm down, is drawn sharply across the throat.. then dropped
   from the square to the side."

        The bloody nature of this oath in the temple endowment was
verified by an abundance of testimony given in the Reed Smoot Case. For
example, in vol. 2, page 78, J. H. Wallis, Sr., testified: "...I agree
that my throat be cut from ear to ear and my tongue torn out by its
roots from my mouth."

        A very important letter has come to light which also confirms
the gory wording of this oath in earlier times. It was written by the
First Presidency of the Mormon Church (President Wilford Woodruff and
his counselors George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith) to Lorenzo Snow,
President of the Salt Lake Temple. Some months prior to the time the
letter was written, President Woodruff recorded in his journal that he
had met with George Q. Cannon, Joseph F. Smith, Lorenzo Snow and other
church officials--including representatives who presided over four
temples--and "spent three hours in harmanizing the Different M[ode?]s of
Ceremonies in giving Endowments." (Wilford Woodruffs Journal, Oct. 17,
1893, vol. 9, p. 267) The letter was written about ten months after the
entry in Woodruff's journal and contains this revealing information:

                "As a result of the conference of the brethren engaged
   as ordinance workers in the several Temples, held at Salt Lake
   Temple, some time ago, the following slight corrections have been
   adopted by us...
                "In the creation on the fifth day a grammatical error
   occurs. The word 'their' is used instead of 'its,' the word their,
   therefore, is changes [sic] to its....
                "The words 'that my tongue be torn from its roots in my
   mouth,' were substituted for 'from the roof of my mouth.'" (Letter
   from the First Presidency, August 31, 1894, LDS Historical
   Department, CR 100, 14, #2, Volume 8:16-17, typed copy)

        Some time in the first half of the 20th century, a major change
was made concerning the penalties in the endowment ceremony. The bloody
wording of the oath mentioned above was entirely removed. Nevertheless,
Mormons were still instructed to draw their thumbs across their throats
to show the penalty. In the account of the ritual which we published in
_Mormonism--Shadow or Reality?_ p. 468, the reader can see how the
wording was modified to remove the harsh language regarding the cutting
of the throat and the tearing out of the tongue:

                "...we desire to impress upon your minds the sacred
   character of the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood, with its
   accompanying name, sign and penalty, together with that of all the
   other Tokens of the Holy Priesthood, with their accompanying names,
   signs and penalties,... They are most sacred and are guarded by
   solemn covenants and obligations of secrecy to the effect that under
   no condition, even at the peril of your life, will you ever divulge
   them, except at a certain place that will be shown you hereafter. The
   representations of the penalties indicates different ways in which
   life may be taken....
                "Adam, we give unto you the First Token of the Aaronic
   Priesthood...
                "The sign of the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood
   is made by bringing the right arm to the square the palm of the hand
   to the front, the fingers close together and the thumb extended. This
   is the sign. The execution of the penalty is represented by placing
   the thumb under the left ear, the palm of the hand down, and by
   drawing the thumb quickly across the throat, to the right ear, and
   dropping the hand to the side....
                "Now repeat in your minds after me the words of the
   covenant, at the same time representing the execution of the penalty.
                "I,_____(think of the new name) do covenant and promise
   that I will never reveal the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood,
   together with its accompanying name, sign and penalty. Rather than do
   so I would suffer my life to be taken."

        This revised version, which remained in effect for a number of
decades, seemed to be more confused than inspired. The Mormon leaders
apparently desired to get rid of the most offensive wording but still
wanted to retain the idea that there was a death penalty involved if the
secrets were revealed. That the penalty for divulging the "First Token"
was still the cutting of the throat would of course still be very clear
to those who had taken the oath before it was changed but those who
received their endowments after the alteration of the ceremony must have
found the whole thing somewhat confusing. While they were still
instructed that the penalty was to draw "the thumb quickly across the
throat" and that the penalties represented "ways in which life may be
taken," they did not have to agree that their "throats be cut from ear
to ear and our tongues tom out by their roots." All they had to do was
promise not to "reveal the First Token... Rather than do so I would
suffer my life to be taken."

        While some Mormons may not have realized exactly what they were
doing when they took the penalties upon themselves, the more astute who
paid careful attention to the ritual realized what they were doing and
many of them were very offended. John Dart gives this information:

                "In pledging to never reveal the ritual, Mormons
   formerly made three motions--drawing one's hand quickly across the
   throat, another indicating one's heart would be cut out and the third
   suggesting disembowelment.
                "'That's why I stopped going to the temple because [the
   ritual] was so offensive,' said a former woman member in Salt Lake
   City.
                "'The so-called penalty gestures were criticized as
   'outgrowing their usefulness' in a talk before a Mormon audience
   about a month ago by Keith Normon... 'I had no idea this change was
   about to take place,' Norman said after the modifications were
   introduced." (Los Angeles Tunes, May 5, 1990)

        The recent removal of the penalties from the endowment ceremony
by the Mormon leaders has been hailed by liberal Mormons as a step in
the right direction. In his article published in the Salt Lake Tribune,
April 29, 1990, Vern Anderson told of Ross Peterson's response to the
removal of the penalties: "It [the endowment] also includes sacred
covenants... Graphic depictions of penalties for breaking them,
considered gruesome by some, were among the recent deletions. 'It's not
as harsh,' Peterson said of the new version. 'It's more uplifting. It's
softer and gentler.'"

        In completely removing the penalties from the endowment
ceremony, the Mormon leaders have taken out some important vestiges of
Masonry which Joseph Smith had borrowed from the Masonic ritual.

Newsgroups: talk.religion.misc
From: ACUS10@WACCVM.SPS.MOT.COM (Mark Fuller)
Subject: Mormon Rituals   3/4
Message-ID: <1993Apr28.233810.4590@newsgate.sps.mot.com>
Organization: Motorola Inc.
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 1993 23:37:26 GMT
Lines: 509

        The reader will remember that the article in the Los Angeles
Times mentioned two other penalties that have been removed from the
Mormon temple endowment. These were also derived from Masonry. In the
"Second or Fellow Craft Degree," Masons bound themselves "under no less
penalty than to have my left breast torn open and my heart and vitals
taken from thence and thrown over my left shoulder and carried into the
valley of Jehosaphat there to become a prey to the wild beasts of the
field, and vulture of the air... The sign is given by drawing your right
hand flat, with the palm of it next to your breast across your breast
from the left to the right side with some quickness, and dropping it
down by your side..." (Freemasonry Exposed, pp. 52-53)

        This oath and the penalty was incorporated into the temple
endowment in the "Second Token of the Aaronic Priesthood." In the 1931
printing of _Temple Mormonism_, p. 20, we find the following:

                "'We and each of us do covenant and promise that we will
   not reveal the secrets of this, the Second Token of the Aaronic
   Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign, grip or penalty. Should
   we do so, we agree to have our breasts cut open and our hearts and
   vitals torn from our bodies and given to the birds of the air and the
   beasts of the field'...
                "The Sign is made by placing the left arm on the square
   placing the right hand across the chest with the thumb extended and
   then drawing it rapidly from left to right and dropping it to the
   side."

                As in the case of the "First Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood," the offensive wording was deleted from the Mormon ceremony
a number of decades ago (see Mormonism--Shadow or Reality? p. 470). The
"execution of the penalty," however, was still retained in the ritual
until April, 1990.

        In the "Third, or Master Mason's Degree," Masons bound
themselves "under no less penalty than to have my body severed in two in
the midst, and divided to the north and south, my bowels burnt to ashes
in the center... The Penal Sign is given by putting the right hand to
the left side of the bowels, the hand open, with the thumb next to the
belly, and drawing it across the belly, and letting it fall; this is
done tolerably quick. This alludes to the penalty of the obligation
'Having my body severed in twain,' etc." (Freemasonry Exposed, pp.
75-77)

        Joseph Smith included this Masonic oath in the "First Token of
the Melchizedek Priesthood." Mormons who went through the endowment were
instructed to say that if they revealed "any of the secrets of this, the
First Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood... we agree that our bodies be
cut asunder in the midst and all our bowels gush out." (Temple
Mormonism, p. 20.) These offensive words were removed from the temple
ceremony many years ago, but Mormons continued to execute the sign of
the penalty until just recently: "The sign of the first token of the
Melchizedek Priesthood or sign of the nail is made by bringing the left
hand in front of you with the hand in cupping shape, the left arm
forming a square, the right hand is also brought forward the fingers
close together, and the thumb is placed over the left hip. This is the
sign. The execution of the penalty is represented by drawing the thumb
quickly across the body and dropping the hand to the side."
(Mormonism--Shadow or Reality? p. 471) Finally, in April 1990, this
penalty was entirely removed from the temple ceremony.

        As we have shown, Joseph Smith received the first three degrees
of Masonry on March 15th and 16th of 1842. Less than two months later
(May 4, 1842) he gave the endowment ceremonies (see History of the
Church, vol. 5 pp. 1-2). The fact that the bloody oaths appeared in the
temple ceremony in exactly the same order as in Masonry seems very
suspicious. In both cases the first oath mentioned the slitting of the
throat and tearing out of the tongue. The second spoke of the cutting
open of the breast so that the heart and vitals could be removed, and
the third mentioned disembowelment. Moreover, in all three cases the
same penalties were demonstrated. This all appears to be too similar to
be a coincidence.

        Since many of those who took part in the endowment ceremonies
were already Masons, Joseph Smith had some explaining to do. He,
therefore, maintained that he was restoring the original temple rites
which had been lost from the earth. Smith further explained that
Masonry, which claimed to go back to King Solomon's temple, originally
had the same ritual but that it had become corrupted. Heber C. Kimball,
who later became a member of the First Presidency of the Mormon Church,
could not help but see the resemblance between the two ceremonies. In
the book, _Heber C. Kimball_, p. 85, Stanley B. Kimball gives this
valuable information: "Heber thought he saw similarities between Masonic
and Mormon ritual. In a letter to Parley Pratt, June 17, 1842, Heber
revealed: 'We have received some pressious things through the Prophet...
thare is a similarity of preas[t] Hood in Masonry. Bro. Joseph Ses
[says?] Masonry was taken from preasthood but has become degenerated.
But menny things are perfect.' Later at a special conference... Heber
explained further: 'We have the true Masonry. The Masonry of today is
received from the apostasy which took place in the days of Solomon and
David. They have now and then a thing that is correct, but we have the
real thing'"

        Mormon apologist E. Cecil McGavin wrote: "If we manifested the
belligerent spirit that many of the Masons display, we might say that
Masonry is a spurious system descending from Solomon's Temple. Numerous
changes and corruptions have crept in, yet enough of the original
remains to bear a few humble resemblances to the true endowment.... In
the diary of Benjamin F. Johnson, an intimate friend and associate of
Joseph Smith, it is recorded that 'Joseph told me that Freemasonry was
the apostate endowment, as sectarian religion was the apostate
religion.'" (Mormonism and Masonry, 1947, p. 199)

        Dr. Reed C. Durham, a Mormon historian who has served as
president of the Mormon History Association, was forced by the evidence
to admit that Masonry had a powerful influence on Joseph Smith: "...I am
convinced that in the study of Masonry lies a pivotal key to further
understanding Joseph Smith and the Church.... The many parallels found
between early Mormonism and the Masonry of that day are substantial... I
believe that there are few significant developments in the Church, that
occurred after March 15, 1842 [the day Smith became a Mason], which did
not have some Masonic interdependence.... There is absolutely no
question in my mind that the Mormon ceremony which came to be known as
the Endowment, introduced by Joseph Smith to Mormon Masons, had an
immediate inspiration from Masonry. This is not to suggest that no other
source of inspiration could have been involved, but the similarities
between the two ceremonies are so apparent and overwhelming that some
dependent relationship cannot be denied. They are so similar, in fact,
that one writer was led to refer to the Endowment as Celestial Masonry."
(Mormon Miscellaneous, October 1975, pp. 13-14)

        Some Mormon apologists who are aware of the devastating
parallels between Masonry and the Mormon temple endowment believe that
when Joseph Smith went through the Masonic ritual, God gave him the
spirit of revelation so that he would discern which portions really went
back to Solomon's temple and which parts had been corrupted by later
Masons. The prophet, therefore, only incorporated the genuine God-given
elements into the Mormon "endowment ceremony."

        Now that the Mormon leaders have completely removed both the
gruesome wording and the penalties from the temple ritual, it places
these apologists on the horns of a dilemma. If God really instructed
Joseph Smith to lift the bloody oaths and penalties from the Masonic
ritual and insert them into the endowment ceremony, how can the present
leaders of the church, who are supposed to be guided by revelation, tear
them out of the temple ritual without offending God? It would appear
that either the present leaders of the church feel that they know more
than the God who was supposed to have spoken to Joseph Smith, or else
they realize that Smith made a serious mistake when he borrowed this
embarrassing material from the Masons.

        The action of church authorities in dropping out some of the
elements which were once believed to be "most sacred" will undoubtedly
raise some serious questions in the minds of many faithful LDS people.
If Joseph Smith was in error when he included these things, then it is
obvious that we have no assurance that the other material he took from
the Masons is really inspired. If a portion of the Masonic material he
plagiarized is found to be defective, it throws suspicion on all the
rest of the Masonic ritual which was incorporated into the endowment,
and since there is so much Masonry in the ceremony, it would lead one to
the suspicion that the entire ceremony is man-made. In _Mormonism-Shadow
or Reality?_ pp. 484-492, we presented devastating evidence linking the
Mormon temple ceremony to Masonry. The parallels are too close to be
swept aside. This same information will be included in our new book,
_Evolution of the Mormon Temple Ceremony_, 1842-1990.

        Those who maintain that the recent changes were really made
because of revelation given to church authorities, should consider
another interesting aspect with regard to this question. On Feb. 18,
1987, the church's own newspaper, _Deseret News_, reported that British
Freemasons removed the bloody oaths from their own ceremonies:
"Beheading and ripping out the tongue have been abolished by the British
Freemasons as penalties for violating the solemn code of the secret
society, it was reported. Such punishments have been on the books of
Freemasonry for centuries to enforce solemn obligations that inductees
to Masonic lodges swear on the Bible to uphold. But, the _Daily
Telegraph_ said this week, it's the sort of thing that scares people
away from the secret society."

        Now, if British Freemasons realized that their gruesome oaths
had a tendency to scare "people away from their secret society" and
decided to make a change to accommodate themselves to current thinking,
it seems very likely that the leaders of the Mormon Church could also
see "the handwriting on the wall." If this process is termed
"revelation," then it is obvious that the British Freemasons had the
revelation first.
+++
IMPORTANT OMISSION

        The Los Angeles Times, May 5, 1990, gave this information
concerning the removal of the "Five Points of Fellowship" from the
temple ceremony:

                "Also dropped is an 'embrace' of a man representing God,
   who stands behind a ceiling-to-floor veil. Reaching through a slit in
   the veil, the church member puts his or her hand to the back of the
   deity and presses against him at the cheek, shoulders, knees and feet
   with the veil between them. The contact at 'five points of
   fellowship,' including the hand to his back, has been omitted,
   although the member must still give a secret handshake and repeat a
   lengthy password."

        There can be no question that the "five points of fellowship"
were derived from Masonry. The reader can clearly see this from the
comparison which follows:

                MASONS: "He (the candidate) is raised on what is called
   the five points of fellowship... This is done by putting the inside
   of your right foot to the inside of the right foot of the person to
   whom you are going to give the word, the inside of your knee to his,
   laying your right breast against his, your left hands on the back of
   each other, and your mouths to each other's right ear (in which
   position alone you are permitted to give the word), and whisper the
   word Mahhah-bone... He is also told that Mahhah-bone signifies marrow
   in the bone." (Freemasonry Exposed, pp. 84-85)

                MORMONS: "The five points of fellowship are given by
   putting the inside of the right foot to the inside of the Lord's, the
   inside of your knee to his, laying your breast close to his, your
   left hands on each other's backs, and each one putting his mouth to
   the other's ear, in which position the Lord whispers:
      "Lord--'This is the sign of the token:
      "'Health to the navel, marrow in the bones...'"
   (Temple Mormonism, page 22)

        That the "five points of fellowship" were in the temple ceremony
while the Mormons were still in Nauvoo, Illinois is verified by a
reference H. Michael Marquardt pointed out in _Heber C. Kimball's
Journal_, Nov. 21, 1845 to Jan. 7, 1846. Under the date of Dec. 11,
1845, a scribe wrote of the "second token of the Melchizedek Priesthood
and also the key word on the five points of fellowship."

        The Five Points of Fellowship remained a very important part of
the temple ceremony until the ritual was revised in April 1990. In the
ceremony as we published it in Mormonism-Shadow or Reality? pp. 472-73,
the reader will find that when those receiving their endowments arrive
at the "veil" and seek entrance into heaven, they are lacking one
extremely important key--i. e., the name of the Second Token of the
Melchizedek Priesthood, The Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail.
When the Lord asks the recipient to "give it [the name] to me?" the
response is: "I cannot. I have not yet received it. For this purpose I
have come to converse with the Lord through the veil." The Lord then
responds: "You shall receive it upon the five points of fellowship,
through the veil." The Lord gives the vital information and then asks
for the name again: "Will you give it to me?" This time the recipient
says, "I will, upon the five points of fellowship through the veil..."
After the secret words are given, the Lord says "That is correct."
Shortly after this, the recipient is allowed to enter into the presence
of the Lord in the "Celestial Room."

        In Duncan's _Masonic Ritual and Monitor_, p 120, we read that in
Masonry the candidate can only receive "the grand Masonic word on the
five points of fellowship." The reader will remember that _Heber C.
Kimball's journal_ for 1845 made it clear that in the Mormon endowment
this important key to the Celestial Kingdom was only given "on the five
points of fellowship." We have also shown that up until the revision of
the ceremony in April 1990, the Lord would only give this important
information "upon the five points of fellowship, through the veil."
Furthermore, the recipient had to give it back to the Lord "upon the
five points of fellowship, through the veil." For almost a century and a
half, therefore, the Mormon leaders taught that these secret words could
only be whispered in the ear while the Lord and the recipient were
touching on all "five points of fellowship." From what we can learn,
those who participate in the ritual still put their "left hands on each
other's backs and whisper the words of the sign," but they do not put
their feet and knees together and all the wording concerning the "five
points of fellowship" has been completely deleted. These words
previously appeared in four different places--the "Lord" spoke of the
"five points of fellowship" twice; "Peter" referred to the "five points
of fellowship" once and the recipient mentioned them once.

        While it is good that the Mormon leaders removed this Masonic
element from the endowment ceremony, some people who have been involved
in temple work feel that the reason it was dropped was because some of
the women felt the five points of contact (especially the placing of the
"inside of your knee to his") were too intimate. There were complaints
that the men playing the role of the Lord sometimes took advantage of
the situation. We were also told that even some of the men felt they had
a problem with the "Lord" behind the veil. Since a large number of men
have played the role of the Lord in the various temples throughout the
world, it is certainly possible that complaints could have been made at
various times. The performance of this type of ceremony in any group of
people would probably result in some complaints. In any case, it is very
possible that the "five points of fellowship" were removed because this
part of the ritual seemed awkward or embarrassing to some members of the
Mormon Church.

        Regardless of the reason for the change, it raises serious
questions concerning the inspiration of church officials. If a person
was previously compelled to receive the secret information necessary to
enter heaven on the five points of fellowship, how can the church
leaders now by-pass God's revealed way which was given by the prophet
Joseph Smith. Kim Sue Lia Perkes revealed that: "...a former Mormon
familiar with the changes said the ceremony's climax has been
eliminated. Removal of that part of the ritual, he said, is the
equivalent of taking the Eucharist out of the Roman Catholic Mass. "Not
all Mormons are happy with the ceremony changes. "'I certainly have
Mormon friends who will see it as a step toward apostasy and an
accommodation to the world,' said one practicing Mormon in Utah."
(Arizona Republic, April 28,1990)

DEVIL'S MINISTER GONE

        When we first printed the temple ceremony in 1969, we commented
on the fact that in the 1906 printing of the endowment, the Devil
offered a preacher four thousand dollars a year to work for him. We said
that in 1906 this was a great deal of money, but that the Mormons had
neglected to give the preacher much of a raise. Therefore, when we
printed the ceremony in 1969, and subsequently in Mormonism-Shadow or
Reality? p. 468, the preacher was still only receiving five thousand
dollars a year. In any case, this portion of the ceremony makes it
perfectly clear that in the eyes of the Mormon leaders the orthodox
Christian religion is the Devil's religion:

                "LUCIFER: Well, if you'll preach your orthodox religion
   to this people and convert them, I'll give you--let me see--five
   thousand a year."

        In Mormonism, Magic and Masonry, p. 66, we wrote: "...the temple
ritual tries to link Christians and ministers of other churches to the
Devil's work. We feel that this is one of the most objectionable things
about the ceremony, and we do not feel that a Christian would want to
give any support to this type of thing."

        Many other Christians protested against this part of the
ceremony, and a great deal of pressure has been put on the Mormon
leaders to change this part of the endowment. We understand, in fact,
that a petition signed by thousands of people demanded that this portion
of the endowment be changed.

        After this portion of the ceremony was deleted, Vern Anderson
wrote the following: "Among the changes... a portion of the ceremony
with an actor portraying a non-Mormon 'preacher' paid by Satan to spread
false doctrine has been eliminated. 'The general consensus is that it's
a breath of fresh air,' said Ross Peterson... 'You don't put down other
churches, or imply that they are Satan's children.'" (Salt Lake Tribune,
April 29, 1990) We have been told that all the material making fun of
both Protestants and Catholics has now been eliminated. The ceremony as
it was previously given, not only implied that Protestant ministers were
working for the Devil, but also had Lucifer claiming he would buy up
"Popes" to help him in his evil work.

        Unfortunately, the removal of the portion of the temple ceremony
which implies that Christian ministers are working for the Devil does
not really solve the problem. The Mormon Church still retains Joseph
Smith's story of the First Vision in the Pearl of Great Price, Joseph
Smith--History, verses 18-19. In this account, Joseph Smith asserted
that Jesus himself told him that all other churches were wrong: "My
object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the
sects was right... I was answered that I must join none of them, for
they were all wrong; and the Personage who addressed me said that all
their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors
were all corrupt..."

OTHER CHANGES

        In the version of the temple ceremony which we published in
_Mormonism--Shadow or Reality?_ p. 467, the men "covenant and promise"
that they will "obey the law of God." The women, however, agree to obey
the law of their husbands:

                "ELOHIM: We will now put the sisters under covenant to
   obey the law of their husbands. Sisters, arise, raise your right hand
   to the square. Each of you do covenant and promise that you will obey
   the law of your husband and abide by his council in righteousness.
   Each of you bow your head and say yes.
                "SISTERS: Yes."

        We have already shown that since the church leaders revised the
endowment ceremony on April 10, 1990, there has been some kind of a
change in the covenant women are required to make. It has been stated
that they "no longer must vow to obey their husbands." (Salt Lake
Tribune, April 29, 1990) While we do not know the wording of the new
version, it appears that some of the women are pleased with the changes
in the ritual. In the Los Angeles Times, May 5, 1990, we find this:
"Lavina Fielding Anderson... said she received the revisions 'with joy.'
'I anticipate further changes with hope and faith,' she said... 'Some
portions of the temple ceremony have been painful to some Mormon women
and, in some respects, still are,' she added, without identifying what
elements may still be objectionable. Women, for example, still cover
their faces with veils at certain points in the ritual, sources said."

        Another important change seems to have been made in the sign for
the Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood. In the ceremony, as
printed in _Mormonism--Shadow or Reality?_ p. 471, we find this:

                "The sign is made by raising both hands high above the
   head and by lowering your hands to the side, saying:
                Pay lay ale
                Pay lay ale
                Pay lay ale"

        As early as 1969 we pointed out a problem with this: "...there
seems to have been a change made in this part of the ceremony, for the
Salt Lake Tribune, Feb. 12, 1906, gave the words as 'Pale, Ale, Ale,'
and _Temple Mormonism_ used the words 'Pale, Hale, Hale.' " (The Mormon
Kingdom, vol. 1, p. 138)

        However this may be, in another portion of the ceremony
(Mormonism Shadow or Reality? p. 468), it is explained that "Pay lay
ale" means "O God, hear the words of my mouth!" In the early 1980's some
critics of the church began to proclaim that in Hebrew these words
really mean, "Wonderful Lucifer." If this were true, this would mean
that the Mormons were praying to the Devil in this part of the ceremony.
We took very strong exception to this claim and pointed out that there
is no way that these words can be translated "Wonderful Lucifer." We
still stand by this research which we presented in detail in our book,
The Lucifer-God Doctrine, pp. 11-15, 85-86.

        In any case, many Mormons must have been bothered when they had
to raise and lower their hands repeating the strange words "Pay lay ale"
three times during the ritual. According to what we can learn, the
Mormon leaders have now replaced the mysterious words with the English
words which were mentioned earlier in the ceremony: "O God, hear the
words of my mouth!" The fact that four different versions of the sign of
the Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood have been given over the
years certainly raises a question concerning the claim that the
endowment was revealed by revelation.

        We have been informed by two different sources that the Lecture
Before The Veil has been removed. This lecture was previously given to
all those who were going through the ritual for the first time. It was
not deemed necessary, however, for those who were going through the
endowment ceremony for the dead. The words "penalty" or "penalties" were
used six times in this lecture, and it referred to the "sectarian
minister" who preached false doctrine (i.e., the minister who was
employed by Lucifer).

        There probably were many other changes made in the temple
ceremony which have not been reported yet. There have been different
reports regarding how much material was actually removed from the
ceremony or changed in some way. _The Salt Lake Tribune_, April 29,
1990, referred to the rituals "current length of about 90 minutes." One
man noted that just after the changes were made, temple workers were
having a very difficult time with the new wording and felt that when
they become proficient in the use of the new script, the ceremony might
be somewhat shorter than when he went through.
+++
Revelation Or Accommodation?

        Although the Mormon leaders have been extremely quiet about the
changes in the temple ceremony, John Dart reported that the following
appeared in a statement by church leaders: "'We are a church that
believes in modern and continuous revelation, and the changes that were
recently made in our temple ceremony are reflective of that process...'"
(Los Angeles Times, May 5, 1990)

        An increasing number of Mormons are beginning to believe that
what is called "revelation" by church leaders is not really revelation
from God, but rather "accommodation" to the views of the world. A number
of things which have happened since 1890 lead to that conclusion. The
changes concerning polygamy, the blacks and the temple endowment all
point in this direction. The process of "modern and continuous
revelation" could probably be summed up in the following formula:
Criticism of a specific doctrine or practice from without the church +
acceptance of that criticism by Mormon scholars and prominent people =
"Revelation."

        Take, for example, the practice of polygamy. Joseph Smith
claimed to receive a revelation from God on July 12, 1843, stating that
plural marriage was to be practiced by the Mormon Church. This
revelation is still published in the church's Doctrine and Covenants as
Section 132. Interestingly, this system of marriage was an extremely
important part of the sealing ceremonies which are still performed in
the temple for "time and all eternity." For many years the Mormon
leaders taught that temple marriage and plural marriage stand or fall
together. Apostle Orson Pratt, for instance, emphasized that: "...if
plurality of marriage is not true, or in other words, if a man has no
divine right to marry two wives or more in this world, then marriage for
eternity is not true, and your faith is all vain, and all the sealing
ordinanc[e]s and powers, pertaining to marriages for eternity are vain,
worthless, good for nothing; for as sure as one is true the other also
must be true. Amen." (Journal of Discourses, vol. 21, p. 296)

        Non-Mormons, of course, vigorously opposed the practice of
polygamy. In addition, the United States Government prosecuted Mormons
who were engaged in the practice. On Jan. 16, 1886, Lorenzo Snow, who
later became the fifth prophet of the Mormon Church, was sentenced to
six months in prison. When the prosecuting attorney predicted that if
Apostle Snow was convicted, "a new revelation would soon follow,
changing the divine law of celestial marriage," Lorenzo Snow
emphatically replied: "The severest prosecutions have never been
followed by revelations changing a divine law, obedience to which
brought imprisonment or martyrdom. Though I go to prison God will not
change his law of celestial marriage.'" (Historical Record, 1887, vol.
6, p. 144)

        Things went from bad to worse for the Mormon leaders. Pressure
not only increased from the outside, but members of the church were
swayed by the opposition. John Taylor, who was the third prophet of the
church, strongly denounced those who would give up the practice: "God
has given us a revelation in regard to celestial marriage.... they
would like us to tone that principle down and change it and make it
applicable to the views of the day. This we cannot do... I cannot do it,
and will not do it. I find some men try to twist round the principle in
any way and every way they can. They want to sneak out of it in some
way. Now God don't want any kind of sycophancy like that.... If God has
introduced something for our glory and exaltation, we are not going to
have that kicked over by any improper influence, either inside or
outside of the Church of the living God." (Journal of Discourses, vol.
25, pp. 309- 310)

        Apostle Orson Pratt argued: "God has told us Latter-day Saints
that we shall be condemned if we do not enter into that principle; and
yet I have heard now and then... a brother or a sister say, 'I am a
Latter-day Saint, but I do not believe in polygamy.' Oh, what an absurd
expression!... If the doctrine of polygamy, as revealed to the
Latter-day Saints, is not true, I would not give a fig for all your
other revelations that came through Joseph Smith the Prophet; I would
renounce the whole of them.... The Lord has said, that those who reject
this principle reject their salvation, they shall be damned, saith the
Lord... I want to prophecy that all men and women who oppose the
revelation which God has given in relation to polygamy will find
themselves in darkness... they will finally go down to hell and be
damned if they do not repent." (Journal of Discourses, vol. 17, pp.
224-25)

Newsgroups: talk.religion.misc
From: ACUS10@WACCVM.SPS.MOT.COM (Mark Fuller)
Subject: Mormon Rituals   ULM 4/4
Message-ID: <1993Apr28.233903.4655@newsgate.sps.mot.com>
Organization: Motorola Inc.
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 1993 23:38:13 GMT
Lines: 430

        Notwithstanding all of the strong rhetoric used by Mormon
leaders, in 1890, Wilford Woodruff, the fourth prophet of the church,
suspended the practice of polygamy when he issued the Manifesto (see
Doctrine and Covenants Official Declaration--1). President Woodruff
proclaimed that the Manifesto was given by revelation from God: "...the
Lord... is giving us revelation... The Lord showed me by vision and
revelation exactly what would take place if we did not stop this
practice. If we had not stopped it... all ordinances would be stopped...
and many men would be made prisoners.... the God of Heaven commanded me
to do what I did do... I went before the Lord, and I wrote what the Lord
told me to write...." (Evidences and Reconciliations, 3 volumes in 1,
pp. 105-106) It is obvious from the evidence we present in
_Mormonism-Shadow or Reality?_ pp. 231-34, that President Woodruff
yielded to pressures from both non-Mormons and members of his own church
and issued the Manifesto which eventually ended the practice of plural
marriage within the church.

        Prior to June 9, 1978, the Mormon Church had a doctrine which
was referred to by outsiders as the "anti-black doctrine" because blacks
were forbidden the priesthood. The basis for this doctrine was Joseph
Smith's Book of Abraham (published in the Pearl of Great Price, one of
the four standard works of the church). Joseph Smith wrote that "from
Ham, sprang that race which preserved the curse in the land." Blacks
were identified as descendants of Ham and were "cursed... as pertaining
to the Priesthood." (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, 1:21-26) It
was taught that even "one drop of Negro blood" would prevent a person
from holding the priesthood, marrying for eternity in the temple, or
even going though the endowment ceremony (see Race Problems--as They
Affect The Church, by Mark E. Petersen, August 27, 1954). Bruce R.
McConkie, who later became an apostle, bluntly stated: "Negroes in this
life are denied the priesthood; under no circumstances can they hold
this delegation of authority from the Almighty. The gospel message of
salvation is not carried affirmatively to them... Negroes are not equal
with other races where the receipt of certain spiritual blessings are
concerned..." (Mormon Doctrine, 1958, p. 477)

        There was a great deal of discussion regarding civil rights in
the 1950's. In 1959 we printed our first criticism of the Mormon
doctrine concerning blacks. As early as 1963, we believed that it was
likely that the Mormon leaders would have a new "revelation" regarding
blacks and printed a sheet entitled, "Will There Be a Revelation
Regarding the Negro?" At the bottom of this sheet we predicted: "If the
pressure continues to increase on the Negro question, the leaders of the
Mormon Church will probably have another revelation which will allow the
Negro to hold the priesthood." Over the years we continued to print a
great deal of material on the subject of blacks and the priesthood.
Although there were some Mormons who had doubts about the anti-black
doctrine, at that time very few were willing to publicly criticize the
church. We were ridiculed for the stand which we took, but we persisted
in challenging this doctrine and a number of Mormons began to take our
work seriously.

        Pressure for a change in the doctrine concerning blacks
continued to mount both without and within the church. Finally, on June
9, 1978, the Mormon church's Deseret News carried a startling
announcement by the First Presidency which said that a new revelation
had been given and that blacks would be allowed to hold the priesthood:
"...we have pleaded long and earnestly... supplicating the Lord for
divine guidance. He has heard our prayers, and by revelation has
confirmed that the long-promised day has come... all worthy male members
of the church may be ordained to the priesthood without regard for race
or color." Shortly after this revelation was received, it became clear
that the church's ban on marriage to blacks had been lifted. On June 24,
1978, the church's newspaper announced that "the first black man to gain
the priesthood" was allowed to go through the temple endowment and was
sealed to his wife for time and eternity.

        Like the polygamy revelation, the revelation by President
Spencer W. Kimball granting blacks the priesthood was given only after
tremendous pressure was exerted by non-Mormon critics and members of the
church itself. With regard to the recent revision of the temple
ceremony, it is clear that the "revelation" came in the same way as the
changes on polygamy and the black doctrine. In the Introduction to our
1964 reprint of _Temple Mormonism_, we pointed out that "there have been
quite a number of changes made since the Temple ceremony was first
introduced." We went on to predict that there would "probably be other
changes made in the Temple ceremony as time goes on."

        As we have already shown, after printing _Temple Mormonism_ in
1964, we published an updated version of the endowment ceremony in 1969
in _The Mormon Kingdom_, vol. 1. This same version was printed in
_Mormonism--Shadow or Reality?_ in 1972 and is still found in that book.
In addition, in our book, _The Changing World of Mormonism_, published
by Moody Press in 1980, we included portions of the endowment ceremony.
We have mentioned also that Chuck and Dolly Sackett published the
ceremony in a pamphlet and distributed tapes of the actual ceremony.
Others also disseminated the ceremony or portions of it in books,
pamphlets, tracts, films and tapes.

        Although the Mormon Church completely lost control of the
situation and had no way to stop the tens of thousands of copies of the
endowment which were being distributed throughout the world, most
members of the church who felt there was something wrong with the ritual
did not dare to openly protest. They feared that they would be strongly
reprimanded or even excommunicated if they raised their voices on the
issue. In 1987, however, a remarkably frank article by David John
Buerger was printed in _Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought_, a
liberal Mormon publication which is not controlled by the church. In
this article, Buerger acknowledged that there were "strong indications
that Joseph Smith drew on the Masonic rites in shaping the temple
endowment, and specifically borrowed the tokens, signs, and penalties."
(Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought, Winter 1987, p. 45)

        Mr. Buerger went even further by suggesting that church leaders
needed to seriously consider making changes in the ceremony to counter
declining rates of attendance at endowment ceremonies:

                "The number of operating temples has increased
   dramatically... An analysis of ordinance data, however, suggests that
   rates of temple work have remained relatively constant over the last
   fifteen years.... Members of my own stake made 2,671 visits to the
   Oakland Temple in 1985, versus 3,340 visits in 1981 a 20 percent drop
   in activity.... Without comparing the policies of stakes in other
   temple districts, it is impossible to say how characteristic my stake
   might be.
                "These declining rates suggest that many Latter-day
   Saints apparently do not participate extensively in either vicarious
   or living endowments. The need for reevaluation can at least be
   discussed. As the history of the endowment shows, specific content
   and procedural alterations were made in 1845, 1877, 1883, 1893,
   1919-27, the early 1960s, and 1968-72....
                "The feelings contemporary Saints have for the temple
   certainly merit a careful quantitative analysis by professional
   social scientists. I have heard a number of themes from people who
   feel discomfort in one degree or another with elements of the temple
   ceremony.... Probably in no other settings except college
   organizations, with their attendant associations of youthfulness and
   possibly immaturity, do most Mormons encounter 'secret' ceremonies
   with code handshakes, clothing that has particular significance, and,
   perhaps most disturbing to some, the implied violence of the
   penalties. Various individuals have commented on their difficulty in
   seeing these elements as 'religious' or 'inspirational,' originating
   in the desires of a loving Father for his children.... some are also
   uncomfortable at the portrayal of a Christian minister as the
   hireling of Satan...
                "Sixth, the endowment ceremony still depicts women as
   subservient to men, not as equals in relating to God. For example,
   women covenant to obey their husbands in righteousness, while he is
   the one who acts as intermediary to God... Some find the temple
   irrelevant to the deeper currents of their Christian service and
   worship of God. Some admit to boredom. Others describe their
   motivations for continued and regular temple attendance as feelings
   of hope and patience--the faith that by continuing to participate
   they will develop more positive feelings... Often they feel unworthy
   or guilty because of these feelings since the temple is so
   unanimously presented as the pinnacle of spiritual experience for
   sincere Latter-day Saints.... The endowment has changed a great deal
   in response to community needs over time. Obviously it has the
   capability of changing still further if the need arises.... From a
   strictly functional perspective, the amount of time required to
   complete a vicarious endowment seems excessive." (Dialogue: A Journal
   of Mormon Thought Winter 1987, pp. 63, 66-69)

        The reader will notice that David John Buerger felt there should
be a "careful quantitative analysis by professional social scientists"
to find out why attendance at temples has been declining. Although it
could have been just a coincidence, it is interesting to note that
within months of the publication of Buerger's article, the Mormon Church
made its own survey of the opinions of members concerning temple work.
In the Instructions for the _Survey of Adult Members in the United
States and Canada_, the following appears: "...we have developed this
survey to help us understand your thoughts, feelings, and experiences
relating to temple and genealogy activities.... along with you,
approximately 3,400 other members in the United States and Canada are
being asked to participate in this project.... We hope that you will
feel you can be candid and open in your answers.... what you write will
be anonymous. We will not be able to associate your name with the
questionnaire you complete." This survey was to be returned in the mail
"by MARCH 30th," 1988.

        Although Question 28 asked the person who had been through the
endowment ritual if he or she "felt spiritually uplifted by the
experience," it also probed to find out if the "experience was
unpleasant" or if the person "was confused by what happened". Q. 29 is
worded, "Briefly describe how you felt after receiving your own
endowment." On the photocopy we have in our possession, the respondent
has written: "Wierd [sic]." Q. 37-k inquired as to whether the person
found "it hard to go to the temple." Q. 39-b asked if the individual
fell "asleep during sessions." Questions were also asked concerning
whether the person really believed "The president of the LDS Church is a
prophet of God," or if "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
is the only true church on the earth." (Q. 70a-b) There was also a
question with regard to whether there were any "doubts about specific
LDS doctrines and teachings." (Q. 77-g) A page at the end of the Survey
was left blank in case the person had "any additional things to write
about your feelings or activities in temple or genealogical work..."

        Although our photocopy of the page containing the "Comments" is
faded out and difficult to read, it appears that the woman who filled
out the _Survey_ admitted she had lost faith in the church. This is
supported by her answers to Questions 77 and 78. The "main reason for
not attending LDS church services" was listed as: "I have some doubts
about specific LDS doctrines and teachings." From all appearances it
appears that the Mormon Church's Survey was a feeler to find out what
changes should be made in the ceremony and how they would be received by
members of the church.

        While many Mormons will undoubtedly stand firm in their faith
that the decision to change the ceremonies came by direct revelation
from God, the evidence seems to indicate that the publication of the
temple ceremony and objections to it by non-Mormons combined with
criticism from within the church (as evidenced by David John Buerger's
article in Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought) forced the Mormon
leaders to issue a survey to find out why temple attendance had fallen
off and what members of the church actually felt about the endowment
ceremony. The results of that survey must have indicated that a
significant number of people were offended by parts of the ceremony.
Consequently, a new "revelation" was given to make the ritual more
appealing to the Mormon people. This tends to verify the formula that
the criticism of a specific doctrine or practice from without the church
+ acceptance of that criticism by Mormon scholars and prominent people =
"Revelation."

        In the early days of the Mormon Church, the word "revelation"
had a very different meaning than it does today. Joseph Smith often used
the word to refer to some new doctrine or teaching which he claimed God
himself had revealed to him. Some of his "revelations" were extremely
unpopular, but this usually did not bother him very much. Take, for
instance, his "revelation" concerning polygamy. In spite of the fact
that many members of the church were violently opposed to the doctrine,
he continued to secretly advocate the practice and to take plural wives
himself. Unlike the current leaders of the church, he did not feel that
it was necessary to take a survey and modify the doctrine to fit the
opinions of others. While we do not believe that the "revelation" on
polygamy came from God and are very opposed to the practice, we must
admit that Smith was not easily swayed by public opinion.

        While Joseph Smith used the word "revelation" to refer to
controversial new doctrines he brought forth to the church, later
prophets have used the same word in an attempt to destroy the very
teachings which Joseph Smith claimed were divinely inspired. When
President Wilford Woodruff claimed he had a "revelation" to stop the
practice of plural marriage in the church, he was not adding any new
doctrine. Instead, he was throwing overboard a doctrine Smith taught was
essential for salvation. If the information that polygamy should not be
practiced was a "revelation," then Christians actually received it
first. Long before Mormonism began, they were condemning the practice.

        Some people now point to the "revelation" which Spencer W.
Kimball, the 12th prophet of the church, gave concerning the blacks as
evidence that the church is still led by revelation. Nothing could be
further from the truth. President Kimball did not reveal any new truth
to the world. Instead, he destroyed a doctrine that came from Joseph
Smith's own "Book of Abraham"--a doctrine which the prophets of the
church had stubbornly clung to until pressure from within and without
the church was so strong that he was forced to yield on the issue.
Millions of Christians and even a large number of Mormons had received
this "revelation" many years before President Kimball received his
answer.

        As far as we know, the recent "revelation" that the temple
ceremony should be altered has not produced any new or important
material. Instead, it is a mutilation of what was supposed to have been
revealed by "revelation" to the prophet Joseph Smith. Things that were
formerly considered to be "most sacred" were stripped from the ritual.
For many years Christians have spoken against the very things which have
now been removed. Why did it take so long for Mormon leaders to obtain
their "revelation" on the subject? The liberal Mormon David John Buerger
seems to have had the "revelation" some time before church leaders
changed the ceremony.

        It seems that it is very difficult for most faithful Mormons to
grasp the significance of what is really going on within the church. The
implications are just too devastating for them to face. The following
hypothetical illustration may help the Mormon reader put the matter into
perspective: If we were to say that God had given us a "revelation" that
baptism should no longer be practiced, members of the church would
protest that this could not be a true revelation. They would undoubtedly
claim that we were merely feigning a "revelation" as a pretext to remove
an important ordinance from the teachings of Christ and might even
suggest that we were embarrassed about getting wet in front of a crowd.

        To those who are paying close attention, it is obvious that the
word "revelation" is really being used as a cover-up for what is going
on. Church leaders are really destroying the original teachings of
Joseph Smith in a very sneaky way. Each time they remove some part that
Smith considered vital, they clothe the action by saying it is a new
"revelation" from God. When will the people wake up and realize what is
going on? We, of course, agree that Joseph Smith's teachings are filled
with errors. We feel, in fact, that sweeping changes need to be made,
but we do not believe it is being honest to do it under the guise of
"revelation." Instead, the General Authorities of the church should
openly admit that they feel Joseph Smith departed from Christian
teachings and then propose a plan to effect the changes that need to be
made. It seems obvious, however, that they will not do this because they
know they will lose power with the people. It is much easier to say that
the prophet has had a new "revelation" and that, of course, marks "the
end of controversy." O. Kendall White has pointed out that the Mormon
leaders' claim of "continuing revelation" is really a mechanism which
they use to side-step acknowledging the "errors of the past." This, of
course, leads to the impression that "the church is never wrong."

        Although they would never admit it, it would appear from the
changes they made in the temple endowment ritual that the current
leaders of the church realize that portions of the ceremony were not
from God--at least we assume that they never would have changed these
parts if they truly believed they came from God. They must agree,
therefore, that we were correct in our assertion that the penalties
which they themselves removed from the ceremony were really derived from
Masonry. It is certainly sad that with all the evidence they have in
their possession that the endowment ritual is man-made, they still
choose to remain silent.

A BAD EXPERIENCE?

        Many people who have been through the Mormon temple endowment
later admit that they were shocked by the ceremony because it was so
different from anything they had previously encountered in Mormonism. A
prominent Mormon educator who served at Brigham Young University told us
that when his wife first went to the temple to receive her endowments,
she became so upset with the ritual that she refused to go any further
and the entire session was delayed while temple workers tried to
convince her to go on. Over the years a surprising number of people have
told us that they had a very bad experience when they went through the
temple ritual. Many of them said that their first serious doubts
concerning the authenticity of Mormonism arose when they went through
the endowment ceremony. Couples have told us that they both had very
negative feelings during the ceremony but at the time did not dare
confide these doubts with each other. We recently received a letter in
which the following appears:

                "We converted to Mormonism 16 years ago when two
   delightful young missionaries knocked on our door.... I had been
   raised in a Christian household... We subsequently married in the
   Temple in New Zealand; an experience we found to be very confusing
   and frightening and we both wanted to leave, but did not mention this
   to each other... I became a Christian in October last year and my
   husband followed shortly after.... We feel so full of the spirit of
   God and we love Jesus with all our hearts." (Letter from Australia,
   dated Jan. 11, 1990)

        Many people who enter the temple are puzzled as to why they
should have to wear specially marked garments for the rest of their
lives and learn secret passwords, signs and handshakes to enter into the
presence of God. They feel that this is rather childish. As we have
shown, David John Buerger has pointed out that these types of things are
found in secret lodges and also in "college organizations, with their
attendant associations of youthfulness and possibly immaturity." The
endowment ceremony actually gives the impression that God is like a
youngster who only allows those who know the secret passwords and signs
into his heavenly clubhouse. This is entirely different from anything we
find in the New Testament. In John 10:14, 27-28, the following appears:
"I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine.... My
sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me: And I give
unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any
man pluck them out of my hand." Those who really know Christ do not have
to worry about remembering any secret words or handshakes. As the
Apostle Paul expresses it, those who are alive at his coming will be
"caught up together with them [i.e., those who are raised from the dead]
in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with
the Lord."(I Thessalonians 4:17) This hardly allows any time for
questions and answers and a ceremony of passing through the veil. In I
Corinthians 15:51-52, Paul wrote that "we shall all be changed, In a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump..." Apostle John
added this comforting thought: "...when he shall appear, we shall be
like him; for we shall see him as he is." (I John 3:2) While the temple
ritual leads Mormons to believe that God is going to put them through
the type of test a Mason has to go through to get into the lodge,
Christians believe that at death they will be received immediately into
God's presence. We find great encouragement in this promise. We feel
that God is like the father of the prodigal son; he did not make his son
pass through some type of test upon his return home. Instead, he "ran"
out to meet him, and "fell on his neck, and kissed him." (Luke 15:20)

        As we have already stated, Mormonism teaches that only Mormons
who receive their endowments and are married for eternity can obtain the
highest exaltation in the hereafter. While the Bible clearly proclaims
that "whosoever believeth in him [Jesus] should not perish, but have
eternal life." (John 3:15), Mormon leaders have taught that "eternal
life" only comes through temple marriage. For example, President Spencer
W. Kimball, the 12th prophet of the church, emphasized: "Only through
celestial marriage can one find the strait way, the narrow path. Eternal
life cannot be had in any other way. The Lord was very specific and very
definite in the matter of marriage." (Deseret News, Church Section, Nov.
12, 1977) On another occasion, Spencer W. Kimball bluntly stated that
"the ordinance of sealing is an absolute, and that without it there can
be no salvation in the eternal world, no eternal life." ("The Ordinances
of the Gospel," as cited in Achieving a Celestial Marriage, page 204) As
we have noted earlier, Mormon theology teaches that those who have been
married in the temple can become Gods, whereas those who refuse to go
through the endowment ritual become servants for all eternity. These
teachings are, of course, very objectionable to orthodox Christians.

        The fact that so many changes have been made in the temple
ceremony over the years provides powerful evidence against the claim
that it came to Joseph Smith by divine revelation. While it is true that
these changes have made the endowment more palatable to the Mormon
people, they do not bring the ceremony into conformity to Christian
beliefs. In Mark 2:21, Jesus said that "No man also seweth a piece of
new cloth on an old garment: else the new piece that filled it up taketh
away from the old, and the rent is made worse." The endowment ritual not
only has many patches in it, but it also has patches on top of patches.
Even though there have been improvements in the temple ceremony, it is
still filled with material taken from the Masonic ritual and concepts
that are not Biblical. Sewing new patches on the many rents in this old
garment will not really solve the problem. The entire ceremony and the
idea of men becoming Gods needs to be abandoned.

        While we do not know what the future holds for Mormonism, we are
very encouraged by recent developments. More and more Mormons are
beginning to reject the concept that "when the leaders speak, the
thinking has been done," and many of them are turning to the Lord for
help. We feel that the recent changes in the endowment ritual will serve
as a catalyst in bringing LDS people to the truth. While the discussion
of the temple ceremony used to be almost completely taboo, active
Mormons are now coming into our bookstore and discussing the matter with
us. A number of them, who have recently gone through the temple, have
provided important details concerning the changes. We have also received
word that they are discussing these matters among themselves. Those of
us who have labored for years to bring the truth to the Mormons are
excited about the future. We have been ridiculed in the past by those
who did not believe our work could have any affect on the leadership of
the church. It is our belief that a large number of Mormons are growing
tired of blindly following their leaders and that we will see tens of
thousands of them turning to the Lord.

        For those who are interested in learning more about the
endowment ceremony, we recommend our new book _Evolution of the Mormon
Temple Ceremony_, 1842- 1990. This book will normally sell for $4.00,
but if it is ordered before August 15, 1990, on our special
pre-publication sale, the price will be only $3.00 (mail orders add
$1.00 for postage and handling).

<Reprints available from
   Utah Lighthouse Ministry
   PO Box, 1884, Salt lake City, Utah 84110

Issue no. 75, July 1990>
